site/docs/v1/tech/troubleshooting.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Troubleshooting
description: Troubleshoot any issues that might arise while install or running FusionAuth.
---

== Overview

If any problems arise or if you are unable to access FusionAuth, consult the FusionAuth log files. In most cases API errors will be written out to the fusionauth-app.log file.

If you need further assistance, please ask a question in the https://fusionauth.io/community/forum/[FusionAuth forum, window="_blank"] or open an issue on https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-issues/issues/new/choose[Github, window="_blank"] if you have additional questions. If you have a licensed edition you may open a support request from your https://account.fusionauth.io/[FusionAuth Account, window="_blank"] page.

=== Logs

==== System Log UI

The system logs may be reviewed in the FusionAuth admin UI by navigating to [breadcrumb]#System -> Logs#.  This feature was added in version 1.16.0. This UI will only render logs for systems that write their logs out to disk.  Deployments which write logs to STDOUT, such is the case with Docker, will not be able to review logs through this interface.

The system log UI organizes and renders the most recent 64KB of all logs for all nodes in the deployment.  If you need the entire log, use the download action in the upper-right hand corner of UI to download a zip of all logs.

image::troubleshooting/system-logs-single-node.png[System Logs - Single Node,width=1200]

image::troubleshooting/system-logs-multiple-nodes.png[System Logs - Multiple Nodes,width=1200]

==== Filesystem Logs

Alternatively, the logs may be accessed directly.  The following are the default locations for each of the FusionAuth log files. You may or may not have all of the FusionAuth services installed for your system, so you may not have all of the following logs on your server.

[source,shell]
.Linux and macOS
----
/usr/local/fusionauth/logs/fusionauth-app.log
/usr/local/fusionauth/logs/fusionauth-search.log
----

These paths assume the suggested product location of `\fusionauth`. This path may be different on your system depending on where you unpacked the zip files.

[source]
.Windows
----
\fusionauth\logs\fusionauth-app.log
\fusionauth\logs\fusionauth-search.log
----

Note that if you started Windows via Fast Path, the `fusionauth-app.log` file will not be created. Instead the services are running interactively and all logging is written to to stdout.

=== Event Log

[NOTE.since]
====
Available since 1.6.0
====

The event log is a FusionAuth message store designed to capture different types of events that may be necessary to communicate to a FusionAuth developer or admin user.

The event log may contain helpful details to indicate the cause of the failure, or a failure condition you need to be aware of in FusionAuth. See [breadcrumb]#System -> Event Log#.

While not limited to, generally speaking the event log will contain events or errors related to external systems or asynchronous issues that are difficult to communicate to the API caller or the FusionAuth admin at runtime. While not intended to be an exhaustive list, examples of these types of errors are:

- SMTP connection issues
- Lambda invocation errors
- External identity provider failures or configuration issues
- Failure to deliver a webhook event

== Troubleshooting Email

include::docs/v1/tech/email-templates/_email-troubleshooting.adoc[]

== Troubleshooting SAML or OIDC Identity Provider Configuration

:idp_type_name: SAML or OIDC 
include::docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/_idp-managed-domains-troubleshooting.adoc[]
:idp_type_name!:

== Troubleshooting Themes

include::docs/v1/tech/themes/_theme-troubleshooting.adoc[]

== Common Errors

Be sure to review the link:/docs/v1/tech/common-errors/[Common Errors] page to see if there are any fixes for any issues you encounter.

Commit message:

Added redirect for common errors
Merged it into troubleshooting.

https://medium.com/@vilcins/redirect-jekyll-urls-9a8deef9426d had nice instructions.

site/docs/v1/tech/troubleshooting.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Troubleshooting
description: Troubleshoot any issues that might arise while install or running FusionAuth.
redirect_from: 
 - /docs/v1/tech/common-errors/
---

== Overview

If any problems arise or if you are unable to access FusionAuth, consult the FusionAuth log files. In most cases API errors will be written out to the fusionauth-app.log file.

If you need further assistance, please ask a question in the https://fusionauth.io/community/forum/[FusionAuth forum, window="_blank"] or open an issue on https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-issues/issues/new/choose[Github, window="_blank"] if you have additional questions. If you have a licensed edition you may open a support request from your https://account.fusionauth.io/[FusionAuth Account, window="_blank"] page.

=== Logs

==== System Log UI

The system logs may be reviewed in the FusionAuth admin UI by navigating to [breadcrumb]#System -> Logs#.  This feature was added in version 1.16.0. This UI will only render logs for systems that write their logs out to disk.  Deployments which write logs to STDOUT, such is the case with Docker, will not be able to review logs through this interface.

The system log UI organizes and renders the most recent 64KB of all logs for all nodes in the deployment.  If you need the entire log, use the download action in the upper-right hand corner of UI to download a zip of all logs.

image::troubleshooting/system-logs-single-node.png[System Logs - Single Node,width=1200]

image::troubleshooting/system-logs-multiple-nodes.png[System Logs - Multiple Nodes,width=1200]

==== Filesystem Logs

Alternatively, the logs may be accessed directly.  The following are the default locations for each of the FusionAuth log files. You may or may not have all of the FusionAuth services installed for your system, so you may not have all of the following logs on your server.

[source,shell]
.Linux and macOS
----
/usr/local/fusionauth/logs/fusionauth-app.log
/usr/local/fusionauth/logs/fusionauth-search.log
----

These paths assume the suggested product location of `\fusionauth`. This path may be different on your system depending on where you unpacked the zip files.

[source]
.Windows
----
\fusionauth\logs\fusionauth-app.log
\fusionauth\logs\fusionauth-search.log
----

Note that if you started Windows via Fast Path, the `fusionauth-app.log` file will not be created. Instead the services are running interactively and all logging is written to to stdout.

=== Event Log

[NOTE.since]
====
Available since 1.6.0
====

The event log is a FusionAuth message store designed to capture different types of events that may be necessary to communicate to a FusionAuth developer or admin user.

The event log may contain helpful details to indicate the cause of the failure, or a failure condition you need to be aware of in FusionAuth. See [breadcrumb]#System -> Event Log#.

While not limited to, generally speaking the event log will contain events or errors related to external systems or asynchronous issues that are difficult to communicate to the API caller or the FusionAuth admin at runtime. While not intended to be an exhaustive list, examples of these types of errors are:

- SMTP connection issues
- Lambda invocation errors
- External identity provider failures or configuration issues
- Failure to deliver a webhook event

== Troubleshooting Email

include::docs/v1/tech/email-templates/_email-troubleshooting.adoc[]

== Troubleshooting SAML or OIDC Identity Provider Configuration

:idp_type_name: SAML or OIDC 
include::docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/_idp-managed-domains-troubleshooting.adoc[]
:idp_type_name!:

== Troubleshooting Themes

include::docs/v1/tech/themes/_theme-troubleshooting.adoc[]

== Common Errors

=== Access Denied

If you see an Access Denied error in your browser while using the FusionAuth UI, this could be caused by a mis-configured CDN or proxy. This error often produces a 4xx error code such as a 403. In order to fix this issue, ensure that your CDN, proxy or gateway does not prevent traffic from flowing directly to FusionAuth. FusionAuth is able to handle all HTTP traffic and any network handling between the browser and FusionAuth should be as simple as possible.

=== FusionAuth Stops Unexpectedly

If you are running FusionAuth on a server with limited memory, it may stop unexpectedly.

You might see lines like this in logs on your server:

```
Dec 30 12:00:38 vps kernel: Out of memory: Kill process 30047 (java) score 98 or sacrifice child
```

The OOM killer will begin killing services once the kernel runs out of memory. The solution will be to allocate less memory to FusionAuth or to increase the amount of RAM available. 

You can do the former with the `fusionauth-app.memory` setting. See the link:/docs/v1/tech/reference/configuration/[configuration reference] for more details. 

You may do the latter by running a larger server or running fewer competing applications. In particular, applications used by FusionAuth such as Elasticsearch or the database may be moved off to external servers.
