docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/docker.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Using FusionAuth on Docker
description: Deploy and test FusionAuth using a Docker container
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== Docker Compose

All of the FusionAuth Docker images may be found on https://hub.docker.com/u/fusionauth/[Docker Hub]. If you're looking for a complete configuration to get up and running quickly, use our Docker Compose example. The following is an example and it may not be the most recent version. Refer to the following link in https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-containers/blob/master/docker/fusionauth/docker-compose.yml[GitHub] to find the latest version.

```
curl -o docker-compose.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-containers/master/docker/fusionauth/docker-compose.yml
curl -o .env https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-containers/master/docker/fusionauth/.env
docker-compose up
```

The stock `.env` file will contain the following values, you will want to modify the `DATABASE_PASSWORD` and ensure the `POSTGRES_USER` and `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` values are correct. You may also override any of these values using environment variables.

```
POSTGRES_USER=postgres
POSTGRES_PASSWORD=postgres
DATABASE_USER=fusionauth
DATABASE_PASSWORD=hkaLBM3RVnyYeYeqE3WI1w2e4Avpy0Wd5O3s3

ES_JAVA_OPTS=-Xms256m -Xmx256m

FUSIONAUTH_MEMORY=256M
```

```yaml
version: '3'

services:
  db:
    image: postgres:9.6
    environment:
      PGDATA: /var/lib/postgresql/data/pgdata
      POSTGRES_USER: ${POSTGRES_USER}
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: ${POSTGRES_PASSWORD}
    ports:
      - 5432:5432
    networks:
      - db
    restart: unless-stopped
    volumes:
      - db_data:/var/lib/postgresql/data

  search:
    image: docker.elastic.co/elasticsearch/elasticsearch:6.3.1
    environment:
      cluster.name: fusionauth
      bootstrap.memory_lock: "true"
      ES_JAVA_OPTS: "${ES_JAVA_OPTS}"
    ports:
    - 9200:9200
    - 9300:9300
    networks:
      - search
    restart: unless-stopped
    ulimits:
      memlock:
        soft: -1
        hard: -1
    volumes:
      - es_data:/usr/share/elasticsearch/data

  fusionauth:
    image: fusionauth/fusionauth-app:latest
    depends_on:
      - db
      - search
    environment:
      DATABASE_URL: jdbc:postgresql://db:5432/fusionauth
      DATABASE_ROOT_USER: ${POSTGRES_USER}
      DATABASE_ROOT_PASSWORD: ${POSTGRES_PASSWORD}
      DATABASE_USER: ${DATABASE_USER}
      DATABASE_PASSWORD: ${DATABASE_PASSWORD}
      FUSIONAUTH_MEMORY: ${FUSIONAUTH_MEMORY}
      FUSIONAUTH_SEARCH_SERVERS: http://search:9200
      FUSIONAUTH_URL: http://fusionauth:9011
    networks:
     - db
     - search
    restart: unless-stopped
    ports:
      - 9011:9011
    volumes:
      - fa_config:/usr/local/fusionauth/config

networks:
  db:
    driver: bridge
  search:
    driver: bridge

volumes:
  db_data:
  es_data:
  fa_config:
```

== Docker Services
In the above example configuration you will find a database, search and FusionAuth service. Read below to better understand how each service is configured.

=== Database Service

At a minimum, you wil need to either set the `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` environment variable in the `db` service section, or more ideally set the value in the host environment and leave it out of the `docker-compose.yml` file. Ensure the other properties fit your requirements. Refer to the link:system-requirements[System Requirements] for database version support.

=== Search Service

We currently are only supporting Elasticsearch 6.3.1, do not modify the image value. Let us know if you have a requirement for a different version of Elasticsearch. The remainder of the properties can be changed to whatever you need.

If you would like to add additional search nodes, simply copy and paste the service section named `search1` and create as many as you'd like naming them `search2`, `search3` for example. Each will require a named volume, you may increment the name of the volume as well, for example `es_data1`, `es_data2`, `es_data3`, etc.

=== FusionAuth Service

==== Silent Configuration
All of the environment variables are options, if not provided a default will be utilized. If you wish to perform a silent configuration which means you will not stop in maintenance mode to configure the database or search engine, you must provide the following environment variables:

* `DATABASE_URL`
* `DATABASE_ROOT_USER`
* `FUSIONAUTH_SEARCH_SERVERS`

These three variables when configured correctly will allow FusionAuth to silently configure itself and go directly to the setup wizard. If they are omitted, FusionAuth will start up in Maintenance mode and require you to interactively configure the database and search engine.

==== Configuration
Review the following environment variables to customize your deployment.

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Environment Variables
|===
|DATABASE_URL [optional]#Optional#
|The JDBC URL that FusionAuth can use to connect to the configured database.

Consider the example below and review each part of the URL string as you may need to adjust it for your configuration.

[block-quote]#jdbc:postgresql://db:5432/fusionauth#

* Database type: PostgreSQL
* Database host: db
* Database port: 5432
* Database name: fusionauth

In the example above, notice we have specified the PostgreSQL jdbc type, a host of `db`, a port `5432` and a database name of `fusionauth`. The host is the service name of the database configuration, in this case it is named `db`.

You may also wish to connect to a remote database, in that case you will provide your own JDBC string URL and you will not require the `db` service in your configuration.

Setting this environment variable will override the `database.url` in the Configuration file. See the link:../reference/configuration[Configuration Reference] for more information.

|DATABASE_ROOT_USER [optional]#Optional#
|The database root user that is used to create the FusionAuth schema and FusionAuth user.

Once FusionAuth is configured and running this value is no longer used and is never persisted.

|DATABASE_ROOT_PASSWORD [optional]#Optional#
|The database root password that is used to create the FusionAuth schema and FusionAuth user. It is recommended to leave the value of this variable empty as it is shown in the example. Using this configuration, the value will be picked up from the host environment. To use the value in this way, be sure to set this named environment value before calling `docker-compose up`.

Once FusionAuth is configured and running this value is no longer used and is never persisted.

|DATABASE_USER [optional]#Optional# [default]#Defaults to `fusionauth`#
|The database user that will be created during configuration to own the FusionAuth schema and to connect to the database at FusionAuth runtime.

Setting this environment variable will override the `database.username` in the Configuration file. See the link:../reference/configuration[Configuration Reference] for more information.

|DATABASE_PASSWORD [optional]#Optional# [default]#Defaults to `fusionauth`#
|The database password that will be created during configuration to own the FusionAuth schema and to connect to the database at FusionAuth runtime. If you are deploying this into production it is extremely important that you sent this value to something other than the default.

Setting this environment variable will override the `database.password` in the Configuration file. See the link:../reference/configuration[Configuration Reference] for more information.

|FUSIONAUTH_MEMORY [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `256M`#
|The RAM to assign to the Java VM for FusionAuth.

Setting this environment variable will override the `fusionauth-app.memory` in the Configuration file. See the link:../reference/configuration[Configuration Reference] for more information.

|FUSIONAUTH_SEARCH_SERVERS [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `http://localhost:9021`#
|A comma separated listed of URLs to connect to one or more search servers.

Setting this environment variable will override the `fusionauth-app.search-servers` in the Configuration file. See the link:../reference/configuration[Configuration Reference] for more information.

|FUSIONAUTH_URL [optional]#Optional# [since]#Available Since 1.4.0#
|The URL that that can be used to communicate with other FusionAuth nodes. Generally this should be a non-routable URL such as a site local address. If you have more than one FusionAuth nodes running this address would be a backplane site-local address. This value will be automatically set if not configured to a site local address if it exists, or it will fall back to a localhost address. When running in a container based environment such as Docker or Kubernetes, this should be set to allow the container to communicate with other FusionAuth containers.

Setting this environment variable will override the `fusionauth-app.url` in the Configuration file. See the link:../reference/configuration[Configuration Reference] for more information.
|===

== Production Deployment

Elasticsearch has a few runtime requirements that may not be met by default on your host platform. Please review the Elasticsearch Docker production mode guide for more information.

* https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/6.3/docker.html#docker-cli-run-prod-mode

For example if startup is failing and you see the following in the logs, you will need to increase `vm.max_map_count` on your host VM.

[.blockquote]
----
2018-11-22T12:32:06.779828954Z Nov 22, 2018 12:32:06.779 PM ERROR c.inversoft.maintenance.search.ElasticsearchSilentConfigurationWorkflowTask
  - Silent configuration was unable to complete search configuration. Entering maintenance mode. State [SERVER_DOWN]

2018-11-22T13:00:05.346558595Z ERROR: [2] bootstrap checks failed
2018-11-22T13:00:05.346600195Z [1]: memory locking requested for elasticsearch process but memory is not locked
2018-11-22T13:00:05.346606495Z [2]: max virtual memory areas vm.max_map_count [65530] is too low, increase to at least [262144]
----

== Docker Images

If you want to build your from our base images, the following Docker images are available.

=== FusionAuth App

```
docker pull fusionauth/fusionauth-app
```

=== FusionAuth Search
The FusionAuth Search image is provided for convenience, you may also choose to use any ElasticSearch container or service running at version 6.3.

```
docker pull fusionauth/fusionauth-search
```

Commit message:

Release notes and Docker config reference.

docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/docker.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Using FusionAuth on Docker
description: Deploy and test FusionAuth using a Docker container
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== Docker Compose

All of the FusionAuth Docker images may be found on https://hub.docker.com/u/fusionauth/[Docker Hub]. If you're looking for a complete configuration to get up and running quickly, use our Docker Compose example. The following is an example and it may not be the most recent version. Refer to the following link in https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-containers/blob/master/docker/fusionauth/docker-compose.yml[GitHub] to find the latest version.

```
curl -o docker-compose.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-containers/master/docker/fusionauth/docker-compose.yml
curl -o .env https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-containers/master/docker/fusionauth/.env
docker-compose up
```

The stock `.env` file will contain the following values, you will want to modify the `DATABASE_PASSWORD` and ensure the `POSTGRES_USER` and `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` values are correct. You may also override any of these values using environment variables.

```
POSTGRES_USER=postgres
POSTGRES_PASSWORD=postgres
DATABASE_USER=fusionauth
DATABASE_PASSWORD=hkaLBM3RVnyYeYeqE3WI1w2e4Avpy0Wd5O3s3

ES_JAVA_OPTS=-Xms256m -Xmx256m

FUSIONAUTH_MEMORY=256M
```

```yaml
version: '3'

services:
  db:
    image: postgres:9.6
    environment:
      PGDATA: /var/lib/postgresql/data/pgdata
      POSTGRES_USER: ${POSTGRES_USER}
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: ${POSTGRES_PASSWORD}
    ports:
      - 5432:5432
    networks:
      - db
    restart: unless-stopped
    volumes:
      - db_data:/var/lib/postgresql/data

  search:
    image: docker.elastic.co/elasticsearch/elasticsearch:6.3.1
    environment:
      cluster.name: fusionauth
      bootstrap.memory_lock: "true"
      ES_JAVA_OPTS: "${ES_JAVA_OPTS}"
    ports:
    - 9200:9200
    - 9300:9300
    networks:
      - search
    restart: unless-stopped
    ulimits:
      memlock:
        soft: -1
        hard: -1
    volumes:
      - es_data:/usr/share/elasticsearch/data

  fusionauth:
    image: fusionauth/fusionauth-app:latest
    depends_on:
      - db
      - search
    environment:
      DATABASE_URL: jdbc:postgresql://db:5432/fusionauth
      DATABASE_ROOT_USER: ${POSTGRES_USER}
      DATABASE_ROOT_PASSWORD: ${POSTGRES_PASSWORD}
      DATABASE_USER: ${DATABASE_USER}
      DATABASE_PASSWORD: ${DATABASE_PASSWORD}
      FUSIONAUTH_MEMORY: ${FUSIONAUTH_MEMORY}
      FUSIONAUTH_SEARCH_SERVERS: http://search:9200
      FUSIONAUTH_URL: http://fusionauth:9011
    networks:
     - db
     - search
    restart: unless-stopped
    ports:
      - 9011:9011
    volumes:
      - fa_config:/usr/local/fusionauth/config

networks:
  db:
    driver: bridge
  search:
    driver: bridge

volumes:
  db_data:
  es_data:
  fa_config:
```

== Docker Services
In the above example configuration you will find a database, search and FusionAuth service. Read below to better understand how each service is configured.

=== Database Service

At a minimum, you wil need to either set the `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` environment variable in the `db` service section, or more ideally set the value in the host environment and leave it out of the `docker-compose.yml` file. Ensure the other properties fit your requirements. Refer to the link:system-requirements[System Requirements] for database version support.

=== Search Service

We currently are only supporting Elasticsearch 6.3.1, do not modify the image value. Let us know if you have a requirement for a different version of Elasticsearch. The remainder of the properties can be changed to whatever you need.

If you would like to add additional search nodes, simply copy and paste the service section named `search1` and create as many as you'd like naming them `search2`, `search3` for example. Each will require a named volume, you may increment the name of the volume as well, for example `es_data1`, `es_data2`, `es_data3`, etc.

=== FusionAuth Service

==== Silent Configuration
All of the environment variables are options, if not provided a default will be utilized. If you wish to perform a silent configuration which means you will not stop in maintenance mode to configure the database or search engine, you must provide the following environment variables:

* `DATABASE_URL`
* `DATABASE_ROOT_USER`
* `FUSIONAUTH_SEARCH_SERVERS`

These three variables when configured correctly will allow FusionAuth to silently configure itself and go directly to the setup wizard. If they are omitted, FusionAuth will start up in Maintenance mode and require you to interactively configure the database and search engine.

==== Configuration
Review the following environment variables to customize your deployment.

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Environment Variables
|===
|DATABASE_URL [optional]#Optional#
|The JDBC URL that FusionAuth can use to connect to the configured database.

Consider the example below and review each part of the URL string as you may need to adjust it for your configuration.

[block-quote]#jdbc:postgresql://db:5432/fusionauth#

* Database type: PostgreSQL
* Database host: db
* Database port: 5432
* Database name: fusionauth

In the example above, notice we have specified the PostgreSQL jdbc type, a host of `db`, a port `5432` and a database name of `fusionauth`. The host is the service name of the database configuration, in this case it is named `db`.

You may also wish to connect to a remote database, in that case you will provide your own JDBC string URL and you will not require the `db` service in your configuration.

Setting this environment variable will override the `database.url` in the Configuration file. See the link:../reference/configuration[Configuration Reference] for more information.

|DATABASE_ROOT_USER [optional]#Optional#
|The database root user that is used to create the FusionAuth schema and FusionAuth user.

Once FusionAuth is configured and running this value is no longer used and is never persisted.

|DATABASE_ROOT_PASSWORD [optional]#Optional#
|The database root password that is used to create the FusionAuth schema and FusionAuth user. It is recommended to leave the value of this variable empty as it is shown in the example. Using this configuration, the value will be picked up from the host environment. To use the value in this way, be sure to set this named environment value before calling `docker-compose up`.

Once FusionAuth is configured and running this value is no longer used and is never persisted.

|DATABASE_USER [optional]#Optional# [default]#Defaults to `fusionauth`#
|The database user that will be created during configuration to own the FusionAuth schema and to connect to the database at FusionAuth runtime.

Setting this environment variable will override the `database.username` in the Configuration file. See the link:../reference/configuration[Configuration Reference] for more information.

|DATABASE_PASSWORD [optional]#Optional# [default]#Defaults to `fusionauth`#
|The database password that will be created during configuration to own the FusionAuth schema and to connect to the database at FusionAuth runtime. If you are deploying this into production it is extremely important that you sent this value to something other than the default.

Setting this environment variable will override the `database.password` in the Configuration file. See the link:../reference/configuration[Configuration Reference] for more information.

|FUSIONAUTH_ADDITIONAL_JAVA_ARGS [optional]#Optional#
|Additional Java arguments to pass to the Java VM for FusionAuth.

Setting this environment variable will override the `fusionauth-app.additional-java-args` in the Configuration file. See the link:../reference/configuration[Configuration Reference] for more information.

|FUSIONAUTH_MEMORY [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `256M`#
|The RAM to assign to the Java VM for FusionAuth.

Setting this environment variable will override the `fusionauth-app.memory` in the Configuration file. See the link:../reference/configuration[Configuration Reference] for more information.

|FUSIONAUTH_SEARCH_SERVERS [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `http://localhost:9021`#
|A comma separated listed of URLs to connect to one or more search servers.

Setting this environment variable will override the `fusionauth-app.search-servers` in the Configuration file. See the link:../reference/configuration[Configuration Reference] for more information.

|FUSIONAUTH_URL [optional]#Optional# [since]#Available Since 1.4.0#
|The URL that that can be used to communicate with other FusionAuth nodes. Generally this should be a non-routable URL such as a site local address. If you have more than one FusionAuth nodes running this address would be a backplane site-local address. This value will be automatically set if not configured to a site local address if it exists, or it will fall back to a localhost address. When running in a container based environment such as Docker or Kubernetes, this should be set to allow the container to communicate with other FusionAuth containers.

Setting this environment variable will override the `fusionauth-app.url` in the Configuration file. See the link:../reference/configuration[Configuration Reference] for more information.
|===

== Production Deployment

Elasticsearch has a few runtime requirements that may not be met by default on your host platform. Please review the Elasticsearch Docker production mode guide for more information.

* https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/6.3/docker.html#docker-cli-run-prod-mode

For example if startup is failing and you see the following in the logs, you will need to increase `vm.max_map_count` on your host VM.

[.blockquote]
----
2018-11-22T12:32:06.779828954Z Nov 22, 2018 12:32:06.779 PM ERROR c.inversoft.maintenance.search.ElasticsearchSilentConfigurationWorkflowTask
  - Silent configuration was unable to complete search configuration. Entering maintenance mode. State [SERVER_DOWN]

2018-11-22T13:00:05.346558595Z ERROR: [2] bootstrap checks failed
2018-11-22T13:00:05.346600195Z [1]: memory locking requested for elasticsearch process but memory is not locked
2018-11-22T13:00:05.346606495Z [2]: max virtual memory areas vm.max_map_count [65530] is too low, increase to at least [262144]
----

== Docker Images

If you want to build your from our base images, the following Docker images are available.

=== FusionAuth App

```
docker pull fusionauth/fusionauth-app
```

=== FusionAuth Search
The FusionAuth Search image is provided for convenience, you may also choose to use any ElasticSearch container or service running at version 6.3.

```
docker pull fusionauth/fusionauth-search
```
