docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/migration.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Migrate from Inversoft Passport to FusionAuth
description: Step by step instructions and information to assist you in migration to FusionAuth
---

== Overview

If you are currently an Inversoft Passport customer and looking to move to FusionAuth you have come to the right place. Here you'll find important information on API changes, database upgrade procedures, etc.

We have attempted to build an exhaustive list of changes you will need to be aware of, but please do plan to test your migration and ask for assistance from the FusionAuth team during your migration.

== Naming Changes

In addition to the obvious change of Passport to FusionAuth, as you read through the documentation and update your integration be aware of the following name changes.

[cols="2a,2a,5a"]
.Name changes
|===
|Old name |New Name |Description

|Passport
|FusionAuth
|Passport is now known as FusionAuth

|passport.properties
|fusionauth.properties
|The Passport configuration file is now named `fusionauth.properties`.

|Passport Backend
|FusionAuth App
|The Passport Backend which refers to the webservice that services APIs and provides the UI is now referred as FusionAuth or FusionAuth App.

|passport-backend
|fusionauth-app
|The passport-backend which was the name of the package or bundle which contained the Passport Backend service will now be called fusionauth-app.

|Passport Search Search
|FusionAuth Search
|The Passport Search Search which refers to the webservice that provides search capability to FusionAuth is now referred to FusionAuth Search.

|passport-search-engine
|fusionauth-search
|The `passport-search-engine` which was the name of the package or bundle which contained the Passport Search Engine service will now be called `fusionauth-search`.

|X-Passport-TenantId
|X-FusionAuth-TenantId
|The `X-Passport-TenantId` which was used if you had configured more than one tenant to scope an API request to a particular tenant should be changed to `X-FusionAuth-TenantId`.
|===

== License Changes

Because FusionAuth is no longer licensed in a traditional way, no license is required and no license checks are performed during a User create or Registration process.


== Breaking Changes

Review the following breaking changes when moving from Passport to FusionAuth. A breaking change means that compatibility has been broken and if your integration will break if you do not review the following changes and update your integration accordingly.

=== API Changes

* When the Search Engine service is down or un-reachable a new status code of `503` will be returned. Previously this error condition would have returned a `500` status code.
* If you were passing the Tenant Id in an HTTP header, this header `X-Passport-TenantId` should now be provided as `X-FusionAuth-TenantId`.
* Application API
** Free form data is now available on the Application object, see `application.data`
* Audit Log API
** `auditLog.data.attributes` moved to `auditLog.data`
** `auditLog.data.newValue` moved to `auditLog.newValue`
** `auditLog.data.oldValue` moved to `auditLog.oldValue`
** `auditLog.data.reason` moved to `auditLog.reason`
* Group API
** `group.data.attributes` moved to `group.data`
* Group Member API
** `groupMember.data.attributes` moved to `groupMember.data`
* SystemConfiguration API
** `systemConfiguration.failedAuthenticationUserActionId` moved to `systemConfiguration.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.userActionId`
** `systemConfiguration.forgotEmailTemplateId` moved to `systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.forgotPasswordEmailTemplateId`
** `systemConfiguration.setPasswordEmailTemplateId` moved to `systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.setPasswordEmailTemplateId`
** `systemConfiguration.verificationEmailTemplateId` moved to `systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.verificationEmailTemplateId`
** `systemConfiguration.verifyEmail` moved to `systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.verifyEmail`
** `systemConfiguration.verifyEmailWhenChanged` moved to `systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.verifyEmailWhenChanged`
* Tenant API
** `tenant.data.attributes` moved to `tenant.data`
** `tenant.forgotEmailTemplateId` moved to `tenant.data`
** `tenant.setPasswordEmailTemplateId` moved to `tenant.emailConfiguration.forgotPasswordEmailTemplateId`
** `tenant.verificationEmailTemplateId` moved to `tenant.emailConfiguration.verificationEmailTemplateId`
** `tenant.verifyEmail` moved to `tenant.emailConfiguration.verifyEmail`
** `tenant.verifyEmailWhenChanged` moved to `tenant.emailConfiguration.verifyEmailWhenChanged`
* User API
** `user.data.attributes` moved to `user.data`
** `user.data.preferredLanguages` moved to `user.preferredLanguages`
** Removed `childIds` and `parentId`
* User Registration API
** `userRegistration.data.attributes` moved to `userRegistration.data`
** `userRegistration.data.timezone` moved to `userRegistration.timezone`
** `userRegistration.data.preferredLanguages` moved to `userRegistration.preferredLanguages`

=== Client Libraries

If you were using a Passport Client library please upgrade to the FusionAuth version. See link:../client-libraries/[Client Libraries]

=== Removed Features

* Parent and Child relationships between users was removed in FusionAuth. This feature is planned to be re-introduced with better support for a family structure and a more flexible relationship model. If you currently utilize this feature please contact the FusionAuth team for assistance.

== Database Migration

Due to the data model changes that were made in FusionAuth your database schema will need to be updated. Please be aware that you Passport database MUST be upgraded to the latest version prior to migrating to FusionAuth. The latest Passport version is `1.22.4`, the easiest way to upgrade your schema is to install the latest version of Passport and start up the service and allow Maintenance Mode to upgrade your database for you. Once this is complete you  may then run the migration script.



[WARNING]
====
*Stop! Read me*

Prior to upgrading to FusionAuth, you MUST upgrade Passport to version `1.22.4`. If you do not, this will not work and you will need to restore your database from a backup.
====



=== MySQL
The following is the MySQL database migration. Please ensure you fully test this migration or contact the FusionAuth team for assistance.


```mysql
-- Passport to FusionAuth

-- Update the version.
UPDATE version
SET version = '1.0.0';

CREATE TABLE instance (
  id         BINARY(16) NOT NULL,
  support_id BINARY(16) NULL
)
  ENGINE = innodb
  CHARACTER SET utf8mb4
  COLLATE utf8mb4_bin;

-- Insert instance
INSERT INTO instance(id) VALUES (random_bytes(16));

-- Rename the forgot password
ALTER TABLE system_configuration
  CHANGE COLUMN forgot_email_templates_id forgot_password_email_templates_id BINARY(16) NULL;
ALTER TABLE tenants
  CHANGE COLUMN forgot_email_templates_id forgot_password_email_templates_id BINARY(16) NULL;

-- Delete the system_configuration columns (verify_email and verify_email_when_changed didn't make it through and need to be manually updated)
UPDATE system_configuration SET data = CONCAT(
  SUBSTRING(data, 1, LENGTH(data) - 1),
  ',"data":{},"emailConfiguration":',
  SUBSTRING(COALESCE(email_configuration, '{}'), 1, LENGTH(email_configuration) - 1),
  ',"verifyEmail":',
  IF(verify_email, 'true', 'false'),
  ',"verifyEmailWhenChanged":',
  IF(verify_email_when_changed, 'true', 'false'),
  '},"passwordValidationRules":',
  COALESCE(password_validation_rules, '{}'),
  '}'
  );
ALTER TABLE system_configuration
  DROP COLUMN email_configuration,
  DROP COLUMN password_expiration_days,
  DROP COLUMN password_validation_rules,
  DROP COLUMN verify_email,
  DROP COLUMN verify_email_when_changed;

-- Add timezone to registration
ALTER TABLE user_registrations
  ADD COLUMN timezone VARCHAR(255) NULL;

-- Delete parent/child relationships
ALTER TABLE users
  DROP COLUMN parent_id,
  DROP COLUMN parental_consent_type;

-- Clean up application (two cases because some old Applications might have a data column with the value '{}' only)
UPDATE applications SET data = CONCAT(
  SUBSTRING(data, 1, LENGTH(data) - 1),
  ',"cleanSpeakConfiguration":',
  COALESCE(clean_speak_configuration, '{}'),
  ',"data":{},"oauthConfiguration":',
  COALESCE(oauth_configuration, '{}'),
  '}'
  ) WHERE data != '{}';
UPDATE applications SET data = CONCAT(
  '{"cleanSpeakConfiguration":',
  COALESCE(clean_speak_configuration, '{}'),
  ',"data":{},"oauthConfiguration":',
  COALESCE(oauth_configuration, '{}'),
  '}'
  ) WHERE data = '{}';
ALTER TABLE applications
  DROP COLUMN clean_speak_configuration,
  DROP COLUMN oauth_configuration;

-- Fix the data column for audit_logs
UPDATE audit_logs SET data = CONCAT('{"data"', SUBSTRING(data, 14)) WHERE data LIKE '{"attributes"%';

-- Fix the data column for groups
UPDATE groups SET data = CONCAT('{"data"', SUBSTRING(data, 14)) WHERE data LIKE '{"attributes"%';

-- Fix the data column for group_members
UPDATE group_members SET data = CONCAT('{"data"', SUBSTRING(data, 14)) WHERE data LIKE '{"attributes"%';

-- Fix the data column for users
UPDATE users SET data = CONCAT('{"data"', SUBSTRING(data, 14)) WHERE data LIKE '{"attributes"%';

-- Fix the data column for user_registrations
UPDATE user_registrations SET data = CONCAT('{"data"', SUBSTRING(data, 14)) WHERE data LIKE '{"attributes"%';

-- Fix the data column for tenants
UPDATE tenants SET data = REPLACE(data, '"emailConfiguration":{"enabled":true}', '"emailConfiguration":{"enabled":true');
UPDATE tenants SET data = REPLACE(data, '"emailConfiguration":{"enabled":false}', '"emailConfiguration":{"enabled":false');
UPDATE tenants SET data = CONCAT(data, '}');

-- Fix the internal API key
DELETE FROM authentication_keys WHERE id LIKE '__internal_%' AND meta_data LIKE '%"cacheReloader"%';
INSERT INTO authentication_keys(id, permissions, meta_data, tenants_id) VALUES (concat('__internal_', replace(to_base64(random_bytes(64)), '\n', '')),
                                                                                '{"endpoints": {"/api/cache/reload": ["POST"]}}', '{"attributes": {"internalCacheReloader": "true"}}', NULL);

```


=== PostgreSQL
The following is the PostgreSQL database migration. Please ensure you fully test this migration or contact the FusionAuth team for assistance.

```postgresql
\set ON_ERROR_STOP true

-- Passport to FusionAuth

-- Update the version.
UPDATE version
SET version = '1.0.0';

CREATE TABLE instance (
  id         UUID NOT NULL,
  support_id UUID NULL
);

-- Insert instance
INSERT INTO instance(id)
VALUES (md5(random() :: text || clock_timestamp() :: text) :: uuid);

-- Rename the forgot password
ALTER TABLE system_configuration
  RENAME COLUMN forgot_email_templates_id TO forgot_password_email_templates_id;
ALTER TABLE tenants
  RENAME COLUMN forgot_email_templates_id TO forgot_password_email_templates_id;

-- Delete the system_configuration columns
-- Delete the system_configuration columns (verify_email and verify_email_when_changed didn't make it through and need to be manually updated)
UPDATE system_configuration SET data =
  SUBSTR(data, 1, LENGTH(data) - 1) ||
  ',"data":{},"emailConfiguration":' ||
  SUBSTR(COALESCE(email_configuration, '{}'), 1, LENGTH(email_configuration) - 1) ||
  ',"verifyEmail":' ||
  CASE WHEN verify_email=true THEN 'true' ELSE 'false' END ||
  ',"verifyEmailWhenChanged":' ||
  CASE WHEN verify_email_when_changed=true THEN 'true' ELSE 'false' END ||
  '},"passwordValidationRules":' ||
  COALESCE(password_validation_rules, '{}') ||
  '}';
ALTER TABLE system_configuration
  DROP COLUMN email_configuration,
  DROP COLUMN password_expiration_days,
  DROP COLUMN password_validation_rules,
  DROP COLUMN verify_email,
  DROP COLUMN verify_email_when_changed;

-- Add timezone to registration
ALTER TABLE user_registrations
  ADD COLUMN timezone VARCHAR(255) NULL;

-- Delete parent/child relationships
ALTER TABLE users
  DROP COLUMN parent_id,
  DROP COLUMN parental_consent_type;

-- Clean up application (two cases because some old Applications might have a data column with the value '{}' only)
UPDATE applications SET data =
  SUBSTR(data, 1, LENGTH(data) - 1) ||
  ',"cleanSpeakConfiguration":' ||
  COALESCE(clean_speak_configuration, '{}') ||
  ',"data":{},"oauthConfiguration":' ||
  COALESCE(oauth_configuration, '{}') ||
  '}' WHERE data != '{}';
UPDATE applications SET data =
  '{"cleanSpeakConfiguration":' ||
  COALESCE(clean_speak_configuration, '{}') ||
  ',"data":{},"oauthConfiguration":' ||
  COALESCE(oauth_configuration, '{}') ||
  '}' WHERE data = '{}';
ALTER TABLE applications
  DROP COLUMN clean_speak_configuration,
  DROP COLUMN oauth_configuration;

-- Fix the data column for audit_logs
UPDATE audit_logs SET data = '{"data"' || SUBSTR(data, 14) WHERE data LIKE '{"attributes"%';

-- Fix the data column for groups
UPDATE groups SET data = '{"data"' || SUBSTR(data, 14) WHERE data LIKE '{"attributes"%';

-- Fix the data column for group_members
UPDATE group_members SET data = '{"data"' || SUBSTR(data, 14) WHERE data LIKE '{"attributes"%';

-- Fix the data column for users
UPDATE users SET data = '{"data"' || SUBSTR(data, 14) WHERE data LIKE '{"attributes"%';

-- Fix the data column for user_registrations
UPDATE user_registrations SET data = '{"data"' || SUBSTR(data, 14) WHERE data LIKE '{"attributes"%';

-- Fix the data column for tenants
UPDATE tenants SET data = REPLACE(data, '"emailConfiguration":{"enabled":true}', '"emailConfiguration":{"enabled":true');
UPDATE tenants SET data = REPLACE(data, '"emailConfiguration":{"enabled":false}', '"emailConfiguration":{"enabled":false');
UPDATE tenants SET data = data || '}';

-- Fix the internal API key
DELETE FROM authentication_keys WHERE id LIKE '__internal_%' AND meta_data LIKE '%"cacheReloader"%';
INSERT INTO authentication_keys(id, permissions, meta_data, tenants_id) VALUES ('__internal_' || replace(encode(md5(random()::text || clock_timestamp()::text)::bytea || md5(random()::text || clock_timestamp()::text)::bytea, 'base64'), E'\n', ''),
                                                                                '{"endpoints": {"/api/cache/reload": ["POST"]}}', '{"attributes": {"internalCacheReloader": "true"}}', NULL);
```

Commit message:

add legacy Passport doc for existing clients

docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/migration.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Migrate from Inversoft Passport to FusionAuth
description: Step by step instructions and information to assist you in migration to FusionAuth
---

== Overview

If you are currently an Inversoft Passport customer and looking to move to FusionAuth you have come to the right place. Here you'll find important information on API changes, database upgrade procedures, etc.

We have attempted to build an exhaustive list of changes you will need to be aware of, but please do plan to test your migration and ask for assistance from the FusionAuth team during your migration.

++++
If you are still using Passport, please use the <a href="/docs/passport/" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Passport Documentation</a>.
++++

== Naming Changes

In addition to the obvious change of Passport to FusionAuth, as you read through the documentation and update your integration be aware of the following name changes.

[cols="2a,2a,5a"]
.Name changes
|===
|Old name |New Name |Description

|Passport
|FusionAuth
|Passport is now known as FusionAuth

|passport.properties
|fusionauth.properties
|The Passport configuration file is now named `fusionauth.properties`.

|Passport Backend
|FusionAuth App
|The Passport Backend which refers to the webservice that services APIs and provides the UI is now referred as FusionAuth or FusionAuth App.

|passport-backend
|fusionauth-app
|The passport-backend which was the name of the package or bundle which contained the Passport Backend service will now be called fusionauth-app.

|Passport Search Search
|FusionAuth Search
|The Passport Search Search which refers to the webservice that provides search capability to FusionAuth is now referred to FusionAuth Search.

|passport-search-engine
|fusionauth-search
|The `passport-search-engine` which was the name of the package or bundle which contained the Passport Search Engine service will now be called `fusionauth-search`.

|X-Passport-TenantId
|X-FusionAuth-TenantId
|The `X-Passport-TenantId` which was used if you had configured more than one tenant to scope an API request to a particular tenant should be changed to `X-FusionAuth-TenantId`.
|===

== License Changes

Because FusionAuth is no longer licensed in a traditional way, no license is required and no license checks are performed during a User create or Registration process.


== Breaking Changes

Review the following breaking changes when moving from Passport to FusionAuth. A breaking change means that compatibility has been broken and if your integration will break if you do not review the following changes and update your integration accordingly.

=== API Changes

* When the Search Engine service is down or un-reachable a new status code of `503` will be returned. Previously this error condition would have returned a `500` status code.
* If you were passing the Tenant Id in an HTTP header, this header `X-Passport-TenantId` should now be provided as `X-FusionAuth-TenantId`.
* Application API
** Free form data is now available on the Application object, see `application.data`
* Audit Log API
** `auditLog.data.attributes` moved to `auditLog.data`
** `auditLog.data.newValue` moved to `auditLog.newValue`
** `auditLog.data.oldValue` moved to `auditLog.oldValue`
** `auditLog.data.reason` moved to `auditLog.reason`
* Group API
** `group.data.attributes` moved to `group.data`
* Group Member API
** `groupMember.data.attributes` moved to `groupMember.data`
* SystemConfiguration API
** `systemConfiguration.failedAuthenticationUserActionId` moved to `systemConfiguration.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.userActionId`
** `systemConfiguration.forgotEmailTemplateId` moved to `systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.forgotPasswordEmailTemplateId`
** `systemConfiguration.setPasswordEmailTemplateId` moved to `systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.setPasswordEmailTemplateId`
** `systemConfiguration.verificationEmailTemplateId` moved to `systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.verificationEmailTemplateId`
** `systemConfiguration.verifyEmail` moved to `systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.verifyEmail`
** `systemConfiguration.verifyEmailWhenChanged` moved to `systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.verifyEmailWhenChanged`
* Tenant API
** `tenant.data.attributes` moved to `tenant.data`
** `tenant.forgotEmailTemplateId` moved to `tenant.data`
** `tenant.setPasswordEmailTemplateId` moved to `tenant.emailConfiguration.forgotPasswordEmailTemplateId`
** `tenant.verificationEmailTemplateId` moved to `tenant.emailConfiguration.verificationEmailTemplateId`
** `tenant.verifyEmail` moved to `tenant.emailConfiguration.verifyEmail`
** `tenant.verifyEmailWhenChanged` moved to `tenant.emailConfiguration.verifyEmailWhenChanged`
* User API
** `user.data.attributes` moved to `user.data`
** `user.data.preferredLanguages` moved to `user.preferredLanguages`
** Removed `childIds` and `parentId`
* User Registration API
** `userRegistration.data.attributes` moved to `userRegistration.data`
** `userRegistration.data.timezone` moved to `userRegistration.timezone`
** `userRegistration.data.preferredLanguages` moved to `userRegistration.preferredLanguages`

=== Client Libraries

If you were using a Passport Client library please upgrade to the FusionAuth version. See link:../client-libraries/[Client Libraries]

=== Removed Features

* Parent and Child relationships between users was removed in FusionAuth. This feature is planned to be re-introduced with better support for a family structure and a more flexible relationship model. If you currently utilize this feature please contact the FusionAuth team for assistance.

== Database Migration

Due to the data model changes that were made in FusionAuth your database schema will need to be updated. Please be aware that you Passport database MUST be upgraded to the latest version prior to migrating to FusionAuth. The latest Passport version is `1.22.4`, the easiest way to upgrade your schema is to install the latest version of Passport and start up the service and allow Maintenance Mode to upgrade your database for you. Once this is complete you  may then run the migration script.



[WARNING]
====
*Stop! Read me*

Prior to upgrading to FusionAuth, you MUST upgrade Passport to version `1.22.4`. If you do not, this will not work and you will need to restore your database from a backup.
====



=== MySQL
The following is the MySQL database migration. Please ensure you fully test this migration or contact the FusionAuth team for assistance.


```mysql
-- Passport to FusionAuth

-- Update the version.
UPDATE version
SET version = '1.0.0';

CREATE TABLE instance (
  id         BINARY(16) NOT NULL,
  support_id BINARY(16) NULL
)
  ENGINE = innodb
  CHARACTER SET utf8mb4
  COLLATE utf8mb4_bin;

-- Insert instance
INSERT INTO instance(id) VALUES (random_bytes(16));

-- Rename the forgot password
ALTER TABLE system_configuration
  CHANGE COLUMN forgot_email_templates_id forgot_password_email_templates_id BINARY(16) NULL;
ALTER TABLE tenants
  CHANGE COLUMN forgot_email_templates_id forgot_password_email_templates_id BINARY(16) NULL;

-- Delete the system_configuration columns (verify_email and verify_email_when_changed didn't make it through and need to be manually updated)
UPDATE system_configuration SET data = CONCAT(
  SUBSTRING(data, 1, LENGTH(data) - 1),
  ',"data":{},"emailConfiguration":',
  SUBSTRING(COALESCE(email_configuration, '{}'), 1, LENGTH(email_configuration) - 1),
  ',"verifyEmail":',
  IF(verify_email, 'true', 'false'),
  ',"verifyEmailWhenChanged":',
  IF(verify_email_when_changed, 'true', 'false'),
  '},"passwordValidationRules":',
  COALESCE(password_validation_rules, '{}'),
  '}'
  );
ALTER TABLE system_configuration
  DROP COLUMN email_configuration,
  DROP COLUMN password_expiration_days,
  DROP COLUMN password_validation_rules,
  DROP COLUMN verify_email,
  DROP COLUMN verify_email_when_changed;

-- Add timezone to registration
ALTER TABLE user_registrations
  ADD COLUMN timezone VARCHAR(255) NULL;

-- Delete parent/child relationships
ALTER TABLE users
  DROP COLUMN parent_id,
  DROP COLUMN parental_consent_type;

-- Clean up application (two cases because some old Applications might have a data column with the value '{}' only)
UPDATE applications SET data = CONCAT(
  SUBSTRING(data, 1, LENGTH(data) - 1),
  ',"cleanSpeakConfiguration":',
  COALESCE(clean_speak_configuration, '{}'),
  ',"data":{},"oauthConfiguration":',
  COALESCE(oauth_configuration, '{}'),
  '}'
  ) WHERE data != '{}';
UPDATE applications SET data = CONCAT(
  '{"cleanSpeakConfiguration":',
  COALESCE(clean_speak_configuration, '{}'),
  ',"data":{},"oauthConfiguration":',
  COALESCE(oauth_configuration, '{}'),
  '}'
  ) WHERE data = '{}';
ALTER TABLE applications
  DROP COLUMN clean_speak_configuration,
  DROP COLUMN oauth_configuration;

-- Fix the data column for audit_logs
UPDATE audit_logs SET data = CONCAT('{"data"', SUBSTRING(data, 14)) WHERE data LIKE '{"attributes"%';

-- Fix the data column for groups
UPDATE groups SET data = CONCAT('{"data"', SUBSTRING(data, 14)) WHERE data LIKE '{"attributes"%';

-- Fix the data column for group_members
UPDATE group_members SET data = CONCAT('{"data"', SUBSTRING(data, 14)) WHERE data LIKE '{"attributes"%';

-- Fix the data column for users
UPDATE users SET data = CONCAT('{"data"', SUBSTRING(data, 14)) WHERE data LIKE '{"attributes"%';

-- Fix the data column for user_registrations
UPDATE user_registrations SET data = CONCAT('{"data"', SUBSTRING(data, 14)) WHERE data LIKE '{"attributes"%';

-- Fix the data column for tenants
UPDATE tenants SET data = REPLACE(data, '"emailConfiguration":{"enabled":true}', '"emailConfiguration":{"enabled":true');
UPDATE tenants SET data = REPLACE(data, '"emailConfiguration":{"enabled":false}', '"emailConfiguration":{"enabled":false');
UPDATE tenants SET data = CONCAT(data, '}');

-- Fix the internal API key
DELETE FROM authentication_keys WHERE id LIKE '__internal_%' AND meta_data LIKE '%"cacheReloader"%';
INSERT INTO authentication_keys(id, permissions, meta_data, tenants_id) VALUES (concat('__internal_', replace(to_base64(random_bytes(64)), '\n', '')),
                                                                                '{"endpoints": {"/api/cache/reload": ["POST"]}}', '{"attributes": {"internalCacheReloader": "true"}}', NULL);

```


=== PostgreSQL
The following is the PostgreSQL database migration. Please ensure you fully test this migration or contact the FusionAuth team for assistance.

```postgresql
\set ON_ERROR_STOP true

-- Passport to FusionAuth

-- Update the version.
UPDATE version
SET version = '1.0.0';

CREATE TABLE instance (
  id         UUID NOT NULL,
  support_id UUID NULL
);

-- Insert instance
INSERT INTO instance(id)
VALUES (md5(random() :: text || clock_timestamp() :: text) :: uuid);

-- Rename the forgot password
ALTER TABLE system_configuration
  RENAME COLUMN forgot_email_templates_id TO forgot_password_email_templates_id;
ALTER TABLE tenants
  RENAME COLUMN forgot_email_templates_id TO forgot_password_email_templates_id;

-- Delete the system_configuration columns
-- Delete the system_configuration columns (verify_email and verify_email_when_changed didn't make it through and need to be manually updated)
UPDATE system_configuration SET data =
  SUBSTR(data, 1, LENGTH(data) - 1) ||
  ',"data":{},"emailConfiguration":' ||
  SUBSTR(COALESCE(email_configuration, '{}'), 1, LENGTH(email_configuration) - 1) ||
  ',"verifyEmail":' ||
  CASE WHEN verify_email=true THEN 'true' ELSE 'false' END ||
  ',"verifyEmailWhenChanged":' ||
  CASE WHEN verify_email_when_changed=true THEN 'true' ELSE 'false' END ||
  '},"passwordValidationRules":' ||
  COALESCE(password_validation_rules, '{}') ||
  '}';
ALTER TABLE system_configuration
  DROP COLUMN email_configuration,
  DROP COLUMN password_expiration_days,
  DROP COLUMN password_validation_rules,
  DROP COLUMN verify_email,
  DROP COLUMN verify_email_when_changed;

-- Add timezone to registration
ALTER TABLE user_registrations
  ADD COLUMN timezone VARCHAR(255) NULL;

-- Delete parent/child relationships
ALTER TABLE users
  DROP COLUMN parent_id,
  DROP COLUMN parental_consent_type;

-- Clean up application (two cases because some old Applications might have a data column with the value '{}' only)
UPDATE applications SET data =
  SUBSTR(data, 1, LENGTH(data) - 1) ||
  ',"cleanSpeakConfiguration":' ||
  COALESCE(clean_speak_configuration, '{}') ||
  ',"data":{},"oauthConfiguration":' ||
  COALESCE(oauth_configuration, '{}') ||
  '}' WHERE data != '{}';
UPDATE applications SET data =
  '{"cleanSpeakConfiguration":' ||
  COALESCE(clean_speak_configuration, '{}') ||
  ',"data":{},"oauthConfiguration":' ||
  COALESCE(oauth_configuration, '{}') ||
  '}' WHERE data = '{}';
ALTER TABLE applications
  DROP COLUMN clean_speak_configuration,
  DROP COLUMN oauth_configuration;

-- Fix the data column for audit_logs
UPDATE audit_logs SET data = '{"data"' || SUBSTR(data, 14) WHERE data LIKE '{"attributes"%';

-- Fix the data column for groups
UPDATE groups SET data = '{"data"' || SUBSTR(data, 14) WHERE data LIKE '{"attributes"%';

-- Fix the data column for group_members
UPDATE group_members SET data = '{"data"' || SUBSTR(data, 14) WHERE data LIKE '{"attributes"%';

-- Fix the data column for users
UPDATE users SET data = '{"data"' || SUBSTR(data, 14) WHERE data LIKE '{"attributes"%';

-- Fix the data column for user_registrations
UPDATE user_registrations SET data = '{"data"' || SUBSTR(data, 14) WHERE data LIKE '{"attributes"%';

-- Fix the data column for tenants
UPDATE tenants SET data = REPLACE(data, '"emailConfiguration":{"enabled":true}', '"emailConfiguration":{"enabled":true');
UPDATE tenants SET data = REPLACE(data, '"emailConfiguration":{"enabled":false}', '"emailConfiguration":{"enabled":false');
UPDATE tenants SET data = data || '}';

-- Fix the internal API key
DELETE FROM authentication_keys WHERE id LIKE '__internal_%' AND meta_data LIKE '%"cacheReloader"%';
INSERT INTO authentication_keys(id, permissions, meta_data, tenants_id) VALUES ('__internal_' || replace(encode(md5(random()::text || clock_timestamp()::text)::bytea || md5(random()::text || clock_timestamp()::text)::bytea, 'base64'), E'\n', ''),
                                                                                '{"endpoints": {"/api/cache/reload": ["POST"]}}', '{"attributes": {"internalCacheReloader": "true"}}', NULL);
```
