docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/securing.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Securing FusionAuth services
description: Secure your installation by limiting network traffic
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== Securing

If you're installing FusionAuth on your own server, use the following guide as a baseline for securing the network services. Please contact
support@fusionauth.io if you have additional questions.

=== Required ports
See the link:../reference/configuration[Configuration Reference] for more information on default port configuration. The documentation below
assumes the default port configuration.

**FusionAuth Search**

If FusionAuth Search is running on the same system as the FusionAuth App service and you're only running a single instance of FusionAuth
App then no external ports should be allowed for FusionAuth Search. In this scenario, FusionAuth App will access the Elasticsearch
service on port `9021` on the `localhost` address. The default configuration should cause FusionAuth Search to only bind to `127.0.0.1` or other
localhost addresses.

If FusionAuth App is installed on multiple servers and those servers can communicate across a private network using a site local address then
the default FusionAuth Search Configuration will not bind to any public IP addresses. In this scenario you will need to allow access to
ports `9020` and `9021` on the site local IP address.

It is not recommended to expose the FusionAuth Search service to any public network. If this is a requirement, then a firewall should be
used to limit traffic based upon the source and destination IP address to the service.

The `9020` port is utilized by Elasticsearch for internal communication including clustering. The `9021` port is the HTTP port utilized by
FusionAuth App to make API requests to the search index.

**FusionAuth App**

To access the FusionAuth UI you'll need to open port `9011`. If you have more than one instance of FusionAuth installed you will need
to ensure that each instance of FusionAuth Backend can communicate on port `9011`.

Commit message:

Update screenshots for FusionAuth and server layout, fix some links for downloads.

docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/securing.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Securing FusionAuth services
description: Secure your installation by limiting network traffic
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== Securing

If you're installing FusionAuth on your own server, use the following guide as a baseline for securing the network services. Please contact
support@fusionauth.io if you have additional questions.

== Required ports
See the link:../reference/configuration[Configuration Reference] for more information on default port configuration. The documentation below
assumes the default port configuration.

=== FusionAuth Search

If FusionAuth Search is running on the same system as the FusionAuth App service and you're only running a single instance of FusionAuth
App then no external ports should be allowed for FusionAuth Search. In this scenario, FusionAuth App will access the Elasticsearch
service on port `9021` on the `localhost` address. The default configuration should cause FusionAuth Search to only bind to `127.0.0.1` or other
localhost addresses. See `fusionauth-search.hosts` in the link:../reference/configuration[Configuration Reference].

If FusionAuth App is installed on multiple servers and those servers can communicate across a private network using a site local address then
the default FusionAuth Search Configuration will not bind to any public IP addresses. In this scenario you will need to allow access to
ports `9020` and `9021` on the site local IP address.

It is not recommended to expose the FusionAuth Search service to any public network. If this is a requirement, then a firewall should be
used to limit traffic based upon the source and destination IP address to the service.

The `9020` port is utilized by Elasticsearch for internal communication including clustering. The `9021` port is the HTTP port utilized by
FusionAuth App to make requests to the search index.

=== FusionAuth App

To access the FusionAuth UI you'll need to open port `9011`. If you have more than one instance of FusionAuth installed you will need
to ensure that each instance of FusionAuth Backend can communicate on port `9011`.
