site/docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/external-jwt/example.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Identity Providers
description: Learn how to federate identity using Identity Providers
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== Example Usage

An Identity Provider in FusionAuth is a configuration that represents an external identity provider.  

The link:../../apis/identity-providers/[Identity Providers] APIs allow you to configure and manage how these external identity providers are utilized by FusionAuth to perform federated authentication.

A typical use case for federated login is when you have users that wish to log into your application but their password is stored and managed in another identity provider.

=== Overview

A concrete example of this scenario is when you have implemented FusionAuth as your primary identity
provider and you have a subset of users that may exist in Active Directory that you need to authenticate to your application.

In the described example, Active Directory Federated Services, more generally referred to as ADFS provides an implementation of OAuth 2.0
which can be utilized by FusionAuth to federate login to ADFS and then reconcile the user to FusionAuth.

For example, during Login, collect the User's email address and utilize the link:../../apis/identity-providers/#lookup-an-identity-provider[Lookup] API to
identify if this User is managed by an external Identity Provider. The result of this lookup may be cached in your application to limit additional
requests during login. You may optionally not use the Lookup API at all, and manage this logic in your own application.

[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/lookup``?domain=playtronics.com``#
--

The Lookup API will return a `200` indicating the users in the domain `playtronics.com` are managed, or a `404` indicating the domain is not managed by any configured
identity provider.

If the email domain is not managed by an external identity provider, then you may continue to collect the password and authenticate the User
against FusionAuth.

A managed domain means you should delegate authentication to the configured external identity provider. The JSON response body from the Lookup API
will indicate which configured Identity Provider is managing the domain and is intended to give you enough information to redirect the browser
to the external identity provider. The following is an example response body from the Lookup API when a `200` status code was returned.

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/identity-providers/lookup/response.json[]
----

The `authorization_endpoint` value configured as part of the Identity Provider and returned in this response is intended to be used to redirect
the browser to start the OAuth workflow with the external identity provider.

Your application will need to handle the redirect from the Authorize endpoint and complete the OAuth workflow by making a request to the Token endpoint
to obtain the access token. This access token is assumed be a JSON Web Token which you'll then send to FusionAuth to reconcile this token and
complete the login process.

To complete the login process by reconciling the User represented by the JWT issued by the external identity provider send this JWT to FusionAuth
using the link:../../apis/jwt#reconcile-a-jwt[Reconcile] API.

The Reconcile API will consume the JWT, validate it was issued by the configured Identity Provider and then using the identity claims included in the
token payload the User will be created if they do not yet exist in FusionAuth, and then registered for the requested FusionAuth Application.

A successful response from the Reconcile API should look identical to a link:../../apis/login#authenticate-a-user[Login] API response.

Commit message:

Fixed relative links in docs and expert advice

site/docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/external-jwt/example.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Identity Providers
description: Learn how to federate identity using Identity Providers
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== Example Usage

An Identity Provider in FusionAuth is a configuration that represents an external identity provider.  

The link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/[Identity Providers] APIs allow you to configure and manage how these external identity providers are utilized by FusionAuth to perform federated authentication.

A typical use case for federated login is when you have users that wish to log into your application but their password is stored and managed in another identity provider.

=== Overview

A concrete example of this scenario is when you have implemented FusionAuth as your primary identity
provider and you have a subset of users that may exist in Active Directory that you need to authenticate to your application.

In the described example, Active Directory Federated Services, more generally referred to as ADFS provides an implementation of OAuth 2.0
which can be utilized by FusionAuth to federate login to ADFS and then reconcile the user to FusionAuth.

For example, during Login, collect the User's email address and utilize the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/#lookup-an-identity-provider[Lookup] API to
identify if this User is managed by an external Identity Provider. The result of this lookup may be cached in your application to limit additional
requests during login. You may optionally not use the Lookup API at all, and manage this logic in your own application.

[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/lookup``?domain=playtronics.com``#
--

The Lookup API will return a `200` indicating the users in the domain `playtronics.com` are managed, or a `404` indicating the domain is not managed by any configured
identity provider.

If the email domain is not managed by an external identity provider, then you may continue to collect the password and authenticate the User
against FusionAuth.

A managed domain means you should delegate authentication to the configured external identity provider. The JSON response body from the Lookup API
will indicate which configured Identity Provider is managing the domain and is intended to give you enough information to redirect the browser
to the external identity provider. The following is an example response body from the Lookup API when a `200` status code was returned.

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/identity-providers/lookup/response.json[]
----

The `authorization_endpoint` value configured as part of the Identity Provider and returned in this response is intended to be used to redirect
the browser to start the OAuth workflow with the external identity provider.

Your application will need to handle the redirect from the Authorize endpoint and complete the OAuth workflow by making a request to the Token endpoint
to obtain the access token. This access token is assumed be a JSON Web Token which you'll then send to FusionAuth to reconcile this token and
complete the login process.

To complete the login process by reconciling the User represented by the JWT issued by the external identity provider send this JWT to FusionAuth
using the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/jwt#reconcile-a-jwt[Reconcile] API.

The Reconcile API will consume the JWT, validate it was issued by the configured Identity Provider and then using the identity claims included in the
token payload the User will be created if they do not yet exist in FusionAuth, and then registered for the requested FusionAuth Application.

A successful response from the Reconcile API should look identical to a link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/login#authenticate-a-user[Login] API response.
