site/docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/apple.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Apple Identity Provider
description: Sign in with Apple using the Apple Identity Provider
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== Overview

[NOTE.since]
====
Available since 1.17.0
====


Adding a Sign in with Apple button to FusionAuth is simple, and this guide will walk you through the steps necessary to collect the configuration details from your Apple Developer account in order to enable this Social login.

* <<Create an Apple Developer Account>>
* <<Configure your Apple Developer Account>>
** <<Register a new App ID>>
** <<Register a new Service ID>>
** <<Register a new Key>>
* <<Import the Private Key>>
* <<Create an Apple Identity Provider>>
* <<Apple Private Mail Relay Configuration>>
* <<CORS Configuration>>
* <<Building Your Own Integration>>

{empty} +

Once you have completed this configuration you will be able to enable the Sign in with Apple login button for one or more FusionAuth Applications. Below is an example login page with the Apple Identity Provider enabled.

image::identity-providers/login-apple.png[Apple Login,width=1200,role=shadowed]

== Create an Apple Developer Account

Ensure you have an Apple Developer account, and then navigate to your Apple Developer account.

* https://developer.apple.com/

If you do not yet have an Apple Developer account, please do this now. Once you have logged into Apple and have obtained access to your Apple Developer account, continue to the next step.

== Configure your Apple Developer Account

If you already have an App ID, Service ID and key configured for Sign in with Apple, you may utilize these existing values. If you have yet to configure your Apple developer account for Sign in with Apple, complete the following steps.

=== Register a new App ID

image::identity-providers/identity-provider-apple-identifiers.png[Apple Identifiers,width=1200,role=shadowed bottom-cropped]

From your Apple Developer account, navigate to [breadcrumb]#Certificates, Identifiers & Profiles# and select [breadcrumb]#Identifiers# from the left column. Click on plus icon to add a new identifier.

image::identity-providers/identity-provider-apple-add-app-ids.png[Register a new Identifier,width=1200,role=shadowed bottom-cropped]

Select [breadcrumb]#App IDs# and click Continue. On the next panel, fill in the Description field and [breadcrumb]#Sign in with Apple# from the list of capabilities and then click Continue. On the next panel confirm your selection, make a note of the App ID Prefix (Team ID) and click Register.

=== Register a new Service ID

image::identity-providers/identity-provider-apple-identifiers.png[Apple Identifiers,width=1200,role=shadowed bottom-cropped]

From your Apple Developer account, navigate to [breadcrumb]#Certificates, Identifiers & Profiles# and select [breadcrumb]#Identifiers# from the left column. Click on plus icon to add a new identifier.

image::identity-providers/identity-provider-apple-add-service-ids.png[Register a new Identifier,width=1200,role=shadowed bottom-cropped]

Select [breadcrumb]#Service IDs# and click Continue. On the next panel, fill in the Description the Identifier fields and click Continue. Complete this step by clicking Register on the following panel.

Edit your newly created Service Id, enable and then configure [breadcrumb]#Sign In with Apple#. Clicking the Configure button will open a Web Authentication Configuration panel. In this step you will need to configure your application domain and return URL of your FusionAuth service.

If you do not see the [breadcrumb]#Domains and Subdomains# and the [breadcrumb]#Return URLs# text input fields, click the plus icon next to Website URLs.

Next, enter your application domain and Return URL.

For example, if the FusionAuth URL is `\https://login.piedpiper.com` then the origin would be `login.piedpiper.com`. The Return URL is the FusionAuth URL with the a path of `/oauth2/callback`, so in this example the return URL would be `\https://login.piedpiper.com/oauth2/callback`.

Additional domains and return URLs may be added at a later time as well. Once you have completed this configuration, save your changes and click Continue. Confirm your changes to the Services ID by clicking Save.

=== Register a new Key

image::identity-providers/identity-provider-apple-keys.png[Apple Identifiers,width=1200,role=shadowed bottom-cropped]

From your Apple Developer account, navigate to [breadcrumb]#Certificates, Identifiers & Profiles# and select [breadcrumb]#Keys# from the left column. Click on plus icon to add a new key.

image::identity-providers/identity-provider-apple-new-key.png[Register a new Key,width=1200,role=shadowed bottom-cropped]

Enter a name for your key.

image::identity-providers/identity-provider-apple-new-key-signin.png[Register a new Key,width=1200,role=shadowed bottom-cropped]

Enable the [breadcrumb]#Sign in with Apple# checkbox, and then click the Configure button.

On the next panel select the previously created App ID and click Save. Click Continue, and then confirm key registration by clicking Register. When prompted to download the key, do so and make a note of the [breadcrumb]#Key ID#.

== Import the Private Key

Now that we have completed the Apple configuration, we can import the private key we collected in the previous step. To import the private key, navigate to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> Key Master# and select [breadcrumb]#Import Private Key# from the actions in the top right.

Enter the `Key ID` from the previous step and enter it into the [field]#Key identifier# field. Using a text editor, open the key file you downloaded in the previous step and copy the value into the [field]#Private key# field.

image::identity-providers/identity-provider-apple-import-key.png[Import Private Key,width=1200,role=shadowed bottom-cropped]

== Create an Apple Identity Provider

The last step will be to create an Apple Identity Provider in FusionAuth. To create an Identity Provider navigate to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> Identity Providers# and click [breadcrumb]#Add provider# and select `Apple` from the dialog.

This will take you to the [breadcrumb]#Add Apple# panel, and you'll fill out the required fields using the values from your Apple Developer account. The button text is also required but it will be defaulted to `Sign in with Apple`, you may optionally modify this default value.

To enable this identity provider for an application, find your application name in the `Applications` configuration section at the bottom of this panel. You will always see the `FusionAuth` application, this application represents the FusionAuth user interface. If you wish to be able to log into FusionAuth with this provider you may enable this application.

In the following screenshot you will see that we have enabled this login provider for the `Pied Piper` application and enabled `Create registration`. Enabling create registration means that a user does not need to be manually registered for the application prior to using this login provider.

For example, when a new user attempts to log into `Pied Piper` using Apple, if their user does not exist in FusionAuth it will be created dynamically, and if the `Create registration` toggle has been enabled, the user will also be registered for `Pied Piper` and assigned any default roles assigned by the application.

If you do not wish to automatically provision a user for this Application when logging in with Apple, leave `Create registration` off and you will need to manually register a user for this application before they may complete login with Apple.

That's it, now the `Sign in with Apple` button will show up on the login page for Pied Piper.

image::identity-providers/identity-provider-apple-add.png[Add Apple,width=1200,role=shadowed]

=== Form Fields

[.api]
[field]#Services Id# [required]#Required#::
The Apple Services identifier found in your Apple Developer Account which has been configured for Sign in with Apple.
+
From within your Apple Developer account, navigate to [breadcrumb]#Certificates, Identifiers & Profiles -> Identifiers -> Services IDs#

[field]#Team Id# [required]#Required#::
The Apple App ID Prefix, or Team ID found in your Apple Developer Account which has been configured for Sign in with Apple.
+
From within your Apple Developer account, navigate to [breadcrumb]#Certificates, Identifiers & Profiles -> Identifiers -> App IDs#

[field]#Button text# [required]#Required#::
The text to be displayed in the button on the login form. This value is defaulted to `Sign in with Apple` but it may be modified to your preference.

[field]#Scope# [optional]#Optional#::
The optional scope value, this is a space separated list of requested user attributes. You may request the User's name, email or both.
+
Example: `name email`

[field]#Signing key# [required]#Required#::
The private signing key provided by Apple which will be used to sign the client secret when requesting an access token from Apple.

[field]#Reconcile lambda# [optional]#Optional#::
A lambda may be utilized to map custom claims returned from Apple.
+
To configure a lambda, navigate to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> Lambdas#.

[field]#Debug enabled# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#::
Enable debug to create an event log to assist you in debugging integration errors.

== Apple Private Mail Relay Configuration

When a user logs in with Apple, they will be provided an option to send their actual email address or an anonymous email address back to FusionAuth.

For example, if the user selects to use an anonymous email address, FusionAuth will receive an email that ends in `@privaterelay.appleid.com`. This email address may be used to communicate with the user, however it means that the email will be routed through Apple's Private Email Relay service. To ensure your email is delivered you will want to register your email domain and perform any necessary configuration with your SMTP service provider.

* https://developer.apple.com/documentation/sign_in_with_apple/sign_in_with_apple_js/communicating_using_the_private_email_relay_service[Apple - Communicating Using the Private Email Relay Service]

Some Email Service providers may provide documentation to assist you in making the necessary configuration changes. For example, the following article is provided by SendGrid to help you send email through Apple's Private Email Relay.

* https://sendgrid.com/docs/ui/account-and-settings/configuring-sign-in-with-apple/[SendGrid - Configuring Sign in with Apple]

== CORS Configuration

In order to complete the login request, Apple will make an HTTP `POST` request to the callback URL in FusionAuth. In order for this request to be allowed through the CORS filter you will need to add `\https://appleid.apple.com` as an allowed origin the CORS configuration.

Once you complete your Apple Identity Provider configuration, if your CORS configuration is not yet configured to allow the Apple login request to complete you wil be shown the following warning prompting you to complete the CORS configuration. See the link:/docs/v1/tech/reference/cors/[CORS Filter reference] for additional details on modifying the CORS configuration.

image::identity-providers/identity-provider-apple-cors-warning.png[Apple CORS Warning,width=1200,role=shadowed bottom-cropped]

== Building Your Own Integration

:identity_provider: apple
include::docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/_login_api_integration.adoc[]

Commit message:

Added note about GET requests for mobile webview registrations.

site/docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/apple.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Apple Identity Provider
description: Sign in with Apple using the Apple Identity Provider
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== Overview

[NOTE.since]
====
Available since 1.17.0
====


Adding a Sign in with Apple button to FusionAuth is simple, and this guide will walk you through the steps necessary to collect the configuration details from your Apple Developer account in order to enable this Social login.

* <<Create an Apple Developer Account>>
* <<Configure your Apple Developer Account>>
** <<Register a new App ID>>
** <<Register a new Service ID>>
** <<Register a new Key>>
* <<Import the Private Key>>
* <<Create an Apple Identity Provider>>
* <<Apple Private Mail Relay Configuration>>
* <<CORS Configuration>>
* <<Building Your Own Integration>>

{empty} +

Once you have completed this configuration you will be able to enable the Sign in with Apple login button for one or more FusionAuth Applications. Below is an example login page with the Apple Identity Provider enabled.

image::identity-providers/login-apple.png[Apple Login,width=1200,role=shadowed]

== Create an Apple Developer Account

Ensure you have an Apple Developer account, and then navigate to your Apple Developer account.

* https://developer.apple.com/

If you do not yet have an Apple Developer account, please do this now. Once you have logged into Apple and have obtained access to your Apple Developer account, continue to the next step.

== Configure your Apple Developer Account

If you already have an App ID, Service ID and key configured for Sign in with Apple, you may utilize these existing values. If you have yet to configure your Apple developer account for Sign in with Apple, complete the following steps.

=== Register a new App ID

image::identity-providers/identity-provider-apple-identifiers.png[Apple Identifiers,width=1200,role=shadowed bottom-cropped]

From your Apple Developer account, navigate to [breadcrumb]#Certificates, Identifiers & Profiles# and select [breadcrumb]#Identifiers# from the left column. Click on plus icon to add a new identifier.

image::identity-providers/identity-provider-apple-add-app-ids.png[Register a new Identifier,width=1200,role=shadowed bottom-cropped]

Select [breadcrumb]#App IDs# and click Continue. On the next panel, fill in the Description field and [breadcrumb]#Sign in with Apple# from the list of capabilities and then click Continue. On the next panel confirm your selection, make a note of the App ID Prefix (Team ID) and click Register.

=== Register a new Service ID

image::identity-providers/identity-provider-apple-identifiers.png[Apple Identifiers,width=1200,role=shadowed bottom-cropped]

From your Apple Developer account, navigate to [breadcrumb]#Certificates, Identifiers & Profiles# and select [breadcrumb]#Identifiers# from the left column. Click on plus icon to add a new identifier.

image::identity-providers/identity-provider-apple-add-service-ids.png[Register a new Identifier,width=1200,role=shadowed bottom-cropped]

Select [breadcrumb]#Service IDs# and click Continue. On the next panel, fill in the Description the Identifier fields and click Continue. Complete this step by clicking Register on the following panel.

Edit your newly created Service Id, enable and then configure [breadcrumb]#Sign In with Apple#. Clicking the Configure button will open a Web Authentication Configuration panel. In this step you will need to configure your application domain and return URL of your FusionAuth service.

If you do not see the [breadcrumb]#Domains and Subdomains# and the [breadcrumb]#Return URLs# text input fields, click the plus icon next to Website URLs.

Next, enter your application domain and Return URL.

For example, if the FusionAuth URL is `\https://login.piedpiper.com` then the origin would be `login.piedpiper.com`. The Return URL is the FusionAuth URL with the a path of `/oauth2/callback`, so in this example the return URL would be `\https://login.piedpiper.com/oauth2/callback`.

Additional domains and return URLs may be added at a later time as well. Once you have completed this configuration, save your changes and click Continue. Confirm your changes to the Services ID by clicking Save.

=== Register a new Key

image::identity-providers/identity-provider-apple-keys.png[Apple Identifiers,width=1200,role=shadowed bottom-cropped]

From your Apple Developer account, navigate to [breadcrumb]#Certificates, Identifiers & Profiles# and select [breadcrumb]#Keys# from the left column. Click on plus icon to add a new key.

image::identity-providers/identity-provider-apple-new-key.png[Register a new Key,width=1200,role=shadowed bottom-cropped]

Enter a name for your key.

image::identity-providers/identity-provider-apple-new-key-signin.png[Register a new Key,width=1200,role=shadowed bottom-cropped]

Enable the [breadcrumb]#Sign in with Apple# checkbox, and then click the Configure button.

On the next panel select the previously created App ID and click Save. Click Continue, and then confirm key registration by clicking Register. When prompted to download the key, do so and make a note of the [breadcrumb]#Key ID#.

== Import the Private Key

Now that we have completed the Apple configuration, we can import the private key we collected in the previous step. To import the private key, navigate to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> Key Master# and select [breadcrumb]#Import Private Key# from the actions in the top right.

Enter the `Key ID` from the previous step and enter it into the [field]#Key identifier# field. Using a text editor, open the key file you downloaded in the previous step and copy the value into the [field]#Private key# field.

image::identity-providers/identity-provider-apple-import-key.png[Import Private Key,width=1200,role=shadowed bottom-cropped]

== Create an Apple Identity Provider

The last step will be to create an Apple Identity Provider in FusionAuth. To create an Identity Provider navigate to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> Identity Providers# and click [breadcrumb]#Add provider# and select `Apple` from the dialog.

This will take you to the [breadcrumb]#Add Apple# panel, and you'll fill out the required fields using the values from your Apple Developer account. The button text is also required but it will be defaulted to `Sign in with Apple`, you may optionally modify this default value.

To enable this identity provider for an application, find your application name in the `Applications` configuration section at the bottom of this panel. You will always see the `FusionAuth` application, this application represents the FusionAuth user interface. If you wish to be able to log into FusionAuth with this provider you may enable this application.

In the following screenshot you will see that we have enabled this login provider for the `Pied Piper` application and enabled `Create registration`. Enabling create registration means that a user does not need to be manually registered for the application prior to using this login provider.

For example, when a new user attempts to log into `Pied Piper` using Apple, if their user does not exist in FusionAuth it will be created dynamically, and if the `Create registration` toggle has been enabled, the user will also be registered for `Pied Piper` and assigned any default roles assigned by the application.

If you do not wish to automatically provision a user for this Application when logging in with Apple, leave `Create registration` off and you will need to manually register a user for this application before they may complete login with Apple.

That's it, now the `Sign in with Apple` button will show up on the login page for Pied Piper.

image::identity-providers/identity-provider-apple-add.png[Add Apple,width=1200,role=shadowed]

=== Form Fields

[.api]
[field]#Services Id# [required]#Required#::
The Apple Services identifier found in your Apple Developer Account which has been configured for Sign in with Apple.
+
From within your Apple Developer account, navigate to [breadcrumb]#Certificates, Identifiers & Profiles -> Identifiers -> Services IDs#

[field]#Team Id# [required]#Required#::
The Apple App ID Prefix, or Team ID found in your Apple Developer Account which has been configured for Sign in with Apple.
+
From within your Apple Developer account, navigate to [breadcrumb]#Certificates, Identifiers & Profiles -> Identifiers -> App IDs#

[field]#Button text# [required]#Required#::
The text to be displayed in the button on the login form. This value is defaulted to `Sign in with Apple` but it may be modified to your preference.

[field]#Scope# [optional]#Optional#::
The optional scope value, this is a space separated list of requested user attributes. You may request the User's name, email or both.
+
Example: `name email`

[field]#Signing key# [required]#Required#::
The private signing key provided by Apple which will be used to sign the client secret when requesting an access token from Apple.

[field]#Reconcile lambda# [optional]#Optional#::
A lambda may be utilized to map custom claims returned from Apple.
+
To configure a lambda, navigate to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> Lambdas#.

[field]#Debug enabled# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#::
Enable debug to create an event log to assist you in debugging integration errors.

== Apple Private Mail Relay Configuration

When a user logs in with Apple, they will be provided an option to send their actual email address or an anonymous email address back to FusionAuth.

For example, if the user selects to use an anonymous email address, FusionAuth will receive an email that ends in `@privaterelay.appleid.com`. This email address may be used to communicate with the user, however it means that the email will be routed through Apple's Private Email Relay service. To ensure your email is delivered you will want to register your email domain and perform any necessary configuration with your SMTP service provider.

* https://developer.apple.com/documentation/sign_in_with_apple/sign_in_with_apple_js/communicating_using_the_private_email_relay_service[Apple - Communicating Using the Private Email Relay Service]

Some Email Service providers may provide documentation to assist you in making the necessary configuration changes. For example, the following article is provided by SendGrid to help you send email through Apple's Private Email Relay.

* https://sendgrid.com/docs/ui/account-and-settings/configuring-sign-in-with-apple/[SendGrid - Configuring Sign in with Apple]

== CORS Configuration

In order to complete the login request, Apple will make an HTTP `POST` request to the callback URL in FusionAuth. In order for this request to be allowed through the CORS filter you will need to add `\https://appleid.apple.com` as an allowed origin the CORS configuration.

In addition if you need to support user registration when using the Safari webview on a mobile device, you will need to allow the `GET` request as the redirect flow is slightly different.

Once you complete your Apple Identity Provider configuration, if your CORS configuration is not yet configured to allow the Apple login request to complete you wil be shown the following warning prompting you to complete the CORS configuration. See the link:/docs/v1/tech/reference/cors/[CORS Filter reference] for additional details on modifying the CORS configuration.

image::identity-providers/identity-provider-apple-cors-warning.png[Apple CORS Warning,width=1200,role=shadowed bottom-cropped]

== Building Your Own Integration

:identity_provider: apple
include::docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/_login_api_integration.adoc[]
