docs/v1/tech/client-libraries/csharp.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: FusionAuth C# Client
description: The FusionAuth C# Client library allows you to call FusionAuth from C#
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== C# Client Library

The C# client library allows you to integrate FusionAuth with your C# application.

Source Code:

* https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-csharp-client

NuGet Package:

* https://www.nuget.org/packages/FusionAuth.Client/

To install the FusionAuth C# Client from NuGet run:

```bash
PM> Install-Package FusionAuth.Client
```


The following code assumes FusionAuth is running on `http://localhost:9011` and uses an API key `6b87a398-39f2-4692-927b-13188a81a9a3`, you will need to supply your own API key, and if you are not running FusionAuth locally, your host parameter may be different.

Here is an example of using the `RetrieveUserByEmail` method to retrieve a User by an email address.

[source,csharp]
----
using FusionAuth;
using FusionAuth.Domain;

namespace Example
{
    public class Example
    {
        private readonly string apiKey = "6b87a398-39f2-4692-927b-13188a81a9a3";

        private readonly string fusionauthURL = "http://localhost:9011";

        private readonly FusionAuthClient client;

        public Example(string apiKey, string fusionauthURL)
        {
            client = new FusionAuthClient(apiKey, fusionauthURL);
        }

        public User GetUserByEmail(string email)
        {
            var response = client.RetrieveUserByEmail("user@example.com");
            if (response.WasSuccessful())
            {
                var user = response.successResponse.user;
                return user;
            }
            else if (response.errorResponse != null)
            {
                // Error Handling
                var errors = response.errorResponse;
                return null;
            }
            else if (response.exception != null)
            {
                // Exception Handling
                var exception = response.exception;
                return null;
            }

            return null;
        }
    }
}
----

Commit message:

Family API stub, and work on client libraries.

docs/v1/tech/client-libraries/csharp.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: FusionAuth C# Client
description: The FusionAuth C# Client library allows you to call FusionAuth from C#
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== C# Client Library

[WARNING]
====
This library has been deprecated in favor of the .NET Core client library.
====

The C# client library allows you to integrate FusionAuth with your C# application.

Source Code:

* https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-csharp-client

NuGet Package:

* https://www.nuget.org/packages/FusionAuth.Client/

To install the FusionAuth C# Client from NuGet run:

```bash
PM> Install-Package FusionAuth.Client
```


The following code assumes FusionAuth is running on `http://localhost:9011` and uses an API key `6b87a398-39f2-4692-927b-13188a81a9a3`, you will need to supply your own API key, and if you are not running FusionAuth locally, your host parameter may be different.

Here is an example of using the `RetrieveUserByEmail` method to retrieve a User by an email address.

[source,csharp]
----
using FusionAuth;
using FusionAuth.Domain;

namespace Example
{
    public class Example
    {
        private readonly string apiKey = "6b87a398-39f2-4692-927b-13188a81a9a3";

        private readonly string fusionauthURL = "http://localhost:9011";

        private readonly FusionAuthClient client;

        public Example(string apiKey, string fusionauthURL)
        {
            client = new FusionAuthClient(apiKey, fusionauthURL);
        }

        public User GetUserByEmail(string email)
        {
            var response = client.RetrieveUserByEmail("user@example.com");
            if (response.WasSuccessful())
            {
                var user = response.successResponse.user;
                return user;
            }
            else if (response.errorResponse != null)
            {
                // Error Handling
                var errors = response.errorResponse;
                return null;
            }
            else if (response.exception != null)
            {
                // Exception Handling
                var exception = response.exception;
                return null;
            }

            return null;
        }
    }
}
----
