docs/v1/tech/client-libraries/javascript.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: FusionAuth JavaScript Client
description: The FusionAuth JavaScript Client library allows you to call FusionAuth from pure JavaScript applications.
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== JavaScript Client Library

The JavaScript client library allows you to integrate FusionAuth with your JavaScript application.

Source Code:

* https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-javascript-client

The following code assumes FusionAuth is running on `http://localhost:9011` and uses an API key `6b87a398-39f2-4692-927b-13188a81a9a3`, you will need to supply your own API key, and if you are not running FusionAuth locally, your host parameter may be different.

Here is an example of using the `retrieveUserByEmail` method to retrieve a User by an email address.

[source,html]
----
<html>
  <head>
    <script src="../lib/ClientResponse.js"></script>
    <script src="../lib/RESTClient.js"></script>
    <script src="../lib/FusionAuthClient.js"></script>
    <script>
      var client = new FusionAuthClient('6b87a398-39f2-4692-927b-13188a81a9a3', 'http://localhost:9011');
      function handleResponse (clientResponse) {
        console.info(JSON.stringify(clientResponse.successResponse.user, null, 2));
      }

      // Retrieve User by Email Address
      client.retrieveUserByEmail('user@example.com', handleResponse);
    </script>
  </head>
  <body>
    Super Awesome Application
  </body>
</html>
----

Commit message:

Add and additional warning about using an API key in the front end. Thanks to @PachowStudios for requesting clarification. https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-angular-client/issues/1

docs/v1/tech/client-libraries/javascript.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: FusionAuth JavaScript Client
description: The FusionAuth JavaScript Client library allows you to call FusionAuth from pure JavaScript applications.
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== JavaScript Client Library

The JavaScript client library allows you to integrate FusionAuth with your JavaScript application.

Source Code:

* https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-javascript-client

[NOTE]
====
Please note that if you will be using this client library in front end code such as a web browser you will not have a secure way to store an APK key. You may optionally pass a value of `null` for the API key parameter and still make API requests that do not require an API key.
====

The following code assumes FusionAuth is running on `http://localhost:9011` and uses an API key `6b87a398-39f2-4692-927b-13188a81a9a3`, you will need to supply your own API key, and if you are not running FusionAuth locally, your host parameter may be different.

Here is an example of using the `retrieveUserByEmail` method to retrieve a User by an email address.

[source,html]
----
<html>
  <head>
    <script src="../lib/ClientResponse.js"></script>
    <script src="../lib/RESTClient.js"></script>
    <script src="../lib/FusionAuthClient.js"></script>
    <script>
      var client = new FusionAuthClient('6b87a398-39f2-4692-927b-13188a81a9a3', 'http://localhost:9011');
      function handleResponse (clientResponse) {
        console.info(JSON.stringify(clientResponse.successResponse.user, null, 2));
      }

      // Retrieve User by Email Address
      client.retrieveUserByEmail('user@example.com', handleResponse);
    </script>
  </head>
  <body>
    Super Awesome Application
  </body>
</html>
----
