docs/v1/tech/client-libraries/node.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: FusionAuth Node.js Client
description: The FusionAuth Node.js Client library allows you to call FusionAuth from Node applications.
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== Node.js Client Library

The Node.js client library allows you to integrate FusionAuth with your Node application.

Source Code:

* https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-node-client

NPM Package:

* https://www.npmjs.com/package/@fusionauth/node-client

To install the FusionAuth Node Client package run:

```bash
$ npm install @fusionauth/node-client
```

The following code assumes FusionAuth is running on `http://localhost:9011` and uses an API key `6b87a398-39f2-4692-927b-13188a81a9a3`, you will need to supply your own API key, and if you are not running FusionAuth locally, your host parameter may be different.

Here is an example of using the `retrieveUserByEmail` method to retrieve a User by an email address.

[source,javascript]
----
const {FusionAuthClient} = require('fusionauth-node-client');
const client = new FusionAuthClient('6b87a398-39f2-4692-927b-13188a81a9a3', 'http://localhost:9011');

// Retrieve User by Email Address
client.retrieveUserByEmail('user@example.com')
       .then(handleResponse);

function handleResponse (clientResponse) {
  console.info(JSON.stringify(clientResponse.successResponse.user, null, 2));
}
----

Commit message:

Add and additional warning about using an API key in the front end. Thanks to @PachowStudios for requesting clarification. https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-angular-client/issues/1

docs/v1/tech/client-libraries/node.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: FusionAuth Node.js Client
description: The FusionAuth Node.js Client library allows you to call FusionAuth from Node applications.
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== Node.js Client Library

The Node.js client library allows you to integrate FusionAuth with your Node application.

Source Code:

* https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-node-client

NPM Package:

* https://www.npmjs.com/package/@fusionauth/node-client

To install the FusionAuth Node Client package run:

```bash
$ npm install @fusionauth/node-client
```

[NOTE]
====
Please note that if you will be using this client library in front end code such as a web browser you will not have a secure way to store an APK key. You may optionally pass a value of `null` for the API key parameter and still make API requests that do not require an API key.
====

The following code assumes FusionAuth is running on `http://localhost:9011` and uses an API key `6b87a398-39f2-4692-927b-13188a81a9a3`, you will need to supply your own API key, and if you are not running FusionAuth locally, your host parameter may be different.

Here is an example of using the `retrieveUserByEmail` method to retrieve a User by an email address.

[source,javascript]
----
const {FusionAuthClient} = require('fusionauth-node-client');
const client = new FusionAuthClient('6b87a398-39f2-4692-927b-13188a81a9a3', 'http://localhost:9011');

// Retrieve User by Email Address
client.retrieveUserByEmail('user@example.com')
       .then(handleResponse);

function handleResponse (clientResponse) {
  console.info(JSON.stringify(clientResponse.successResponse.user, null, 2));
}
----
