site/docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_google-response-body.adoc, before:

==== Response Body

[.api]
[field]#identityProvider.applicationConfiguration# [type]#[Map<UUID, Object>]#::
The configuration for each Application that the identity provider is enabled for.

[field]#identityProvider.applicationConfiguration``[applicationId]``.buttonText# [type]#[String]#::
This is an optional Application specific override for the top level [field]#buttonText#.

[field]#identityProvider.applicationConfiguration``[applicationId]``.client_id# [type]#[String]#::
This is an optional Application specific override for the top level [field]#client_id#.

[field]#identityProvider.applicationConfiguration``[applicationId]``.client_secret# [type]#[String]#::
This is an optional Application specific override for the top level [field]#client_secret#.

[field]#identityProvider.applicationConfiguration``[applicationId]``.createRegistration# [type]#[Boolean]#::
Determines if a UserRegistration is created for the User automatically or not. If a user doesn't exist in FusionAuth and logs in through an identity provider, this boolean controls whether or not FusionAuth creates a registration for the User in the Application they are logging into.

[field]#identityProvider.applicationConfiguration``[applicationId]``.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]#::
Determines if this identity provider is enabled for the Application specified by the `applicationId` key.

[field]#identityProvider.applicationConfiguration``[applicationId]``.scope# [type]#[String]#::
This is an optional Application specific override for for the top level [field]#scope#.

[field]#identityProvider.buttonText# [type]#[String]#::
The top-level button text to use on the FusionAuth login page for this Identity Provider.

[field]#identityProvider.client_id# [type]#[String]#::
The top-level Google client id for your Application. This value is retrieved from the Google developer website when you setup your Google developer account.

[field]#identityProvider.client_secret# [type]#[String]#::
The top-level client secret to use with the Google Identity Provider when retrieving the long-lived token. This value is retrieved from the Google developer website when you setup your Google developer account.

[field]#identityProvider.debug# [type]#[Boolean]# [since]#Available since 1.7.3#::
Determines if debug is enabled for this provider. When enabled, each time this provider is invoked to reconcile a login an Event Log will be created.

[field]#identityProvider.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]#::
Determines if this provider is enabled. If it is false then it will be disabled globally.

[field]#identityProvider.id# [type]#[UUID]#::
The Id of the Google identity provider, which will always be `82339786-3dff-42a6-aac6-1f1ceecb6c46`.

[field]#identityProvider.name# [type]#[String]#::
The name of the provider, this field will always be set to `Google`.

[field]#identityProvider.scope# [type]#[String]#::
The top-level scope that you are requesting from Google.

[field]#identityProvider.type# [type]#[String]#::
The type of this provider, this field will always be set to `Google`.

[source,json]
.Example Google Response JSON
----
include::../../../../src/json/identity-providers/google-response.json[]
----

Commit message:

Updated API documentation for Forms and Form Fields. (#143)
API documentation for Forms and Form Fields - 1.18.0 release.

FusionAuth/fusionauth-internal-issues#117

site/docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_google-response-body.adoc, after:

==== Response Body

[.api]
[field]#identityProvider.applicationConfiguration# [type]#[Map<UUID, Object>]#::
The configuration for each Application that the identity provider is enabled for.

[field]#identityProvider.applicationConfiguration``[applicationId]``.buttonText# [type]#[String]#::
This is an optional Application specific override for the top level [field]#buttonText#.

[field]#identityProvider.applicationConfiguration``[applicationId]``.client_id# [type]#[String]#::
This is an optional Application specific override for the top level [field]#client_id#.

[field]#identityProvider.applicationConfiguration``[applicationId]``.client_secret# [type]#[String]#::
This is an optional Application specific override for the top level [field]#client_secret#.

[field]#identityProvider.applicationConfiguration``[applicationId]``.createRegistration# [type]#[Boolean]#::
Determines if a UserRegistration is created for the User automatically or not. If a user doesn't exist in FusionAuth and logs in through an identity provider, this boolean controls whether or not FusionAuth creates a registration for the User in the Application they are logging into.

[field]#identityProvider.applicationConfiguration``[applicationId]``.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]#::
Determines if this identity provider is enabled for the Application specified by the `applicationId` key.

[field]#identityProvider.applicationConfiguration``[applicationId]``.scope# [type]#[String]#::
This is an optional Application specific override for for the top level [field]#scope#.

[field]#identityProvider.buttonText# [type]#[String]#::
The top-level button text to use on the FusionAuth login page for this Identity Provider.

[field]#identityProvider.client_id# [type]#[String]#::
The top-level Google client id for your Application. This value is retrieved from the Google developer website when you setup your Google developer account.

[field]#identityProvider.client_secret# [type]#[String]#::
The top-level client secret to use with the Google Identity Provider when retrieving the long-lived token. This value is retrieved from the Google developer website when you setup your Google developer account.

[field]#identityProvider.debug# [type]#[Boolean]# [since]#Available since 1.7.3#::
Determines if debug is enabled for this provider. When enabled, each time this provider is invoked to reconcile a login an Event Log will be created.

[field]#identityProvider.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]#::
Determines if this provider is enabled. If it is false then it will be disabled globally.

[field]#identityProvider.id# [type]#[UUID]#::
The Id of the Google identity provider, which will always be `82339786-3dff-42a6-aac6-1f1ceecb6c46`.

[field]#identityProvider.insertInstant# [type]#[Long]#::
The link:/docs/v1/tech/reference/data-types#instants[instant] that the provider was added to the FusionAuth database.

[field]#identityProvider.lastUpdateInstant# [type]#[Long]#::
The link:/docs/v1/tech/reference/data-types#instants[instant] that the provider was updated in the FusionAuth database.

[field]#identityProvider.name# [type]#[String]#::
The name of the provider, this field will always be set to `Google`.

[field]#identityProvider.scope# [type]#[String]#::
The top-level scope that you are requesting from Google.

[field]#identityProvider.type# [type]#[String]#::
The type of this provider, this field will always be set to `Google`.

[source,json]
.Example Google Response JSON
----
include::../../../../src/json/identity-providers/google-response.json[]
----
