site/docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_identity-provider-login-response-body.adoc, before:

[cols="1,9a"]
.Response Codes
|===
|Code |Description

|200
|The authentication was successful. The response will contain the User object that was authenticated.

|202
|The user was authenticated successfully. The user is not registered for the application specified by `applicationId` on the request.
The response will contain the User object that was authenticated.

|203
|The user was authenticated successfully. The user is required to change their password, the response will contain the `changePasswordId` to be used
on the link:../users#change-a-users-password[Change Password] API.

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON
----
include::../../../../src/json/login/login-change-password-response.json[]
----

|212
|The user's email address has not yet been verified. The response will contain the User object that was authenticated.

|242
|The user was authenticated successfully. The user has two factor authentication enabled, the response will contain the `twoFactorId` to be used
on the link:../login#complete-two-factor-authentication[Complete Two Factor Authentication].

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON
----
include::../../../../src/json/login/login-two-factor-response.json[]
----

|400
|The request was invalid and/or malformed. The response will contain an link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/errors[Errors] JSON Object with the specific errors.

|401
|Unable to complete the login request. The user cannot be reconciled or logged in using the external identity provider.

|404
|The user was not found or the password was incorrect. The response will be empty.

|409
|The user is currently in an action that has prevented login. The response will contain the actions that prevented login.

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON
----
include::../../../../src/json/login/login-prevented-response.json[]
----

|410
|The user has expired. The response will be empty.

|500
|There was an internal error. A stack trace is provided and logged in the FusionAuth log files. The response will be empty.

|503
|The search index is not available or encountered an exception so the request cannot be completed. The response will contain a JSON body.
|===

:login_response:
include::../_user-response-body.adoc[]
:login_response!:

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Response Cookies
|===
|[field]#access_token# [type]#[String]#
|The access token, this string is an encoded JSON Web Token (JWT). This cookie is written in the response as an HTTP Only session cookie.

|[field]#refresh_token# [type]#[String]#
|The refresh token. This cookie is written in the response as an HTTP only persistent cookie. The cookie expiration is configured in the JWT
configuration for the application or the global JWT configuration.
|===

Commit message:

Add missing 204 for the HYPR login API

site/docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_identity-provider-login-response-body.adoc, after:

[cols="1,9a"]
.Response Codes
|===
|Code |Description

|200
|The authentication was successful. The response will contain the User object that was authenticated.

|202
|The user was authenticated successfully. The user is not registered for the application specified by `applicationId` on the request.
The response will contain the User object that was authenticated.

|203
|The user was authenticated successfully. The user is required to change their password, the response will contain the `changePasswordId` to be used
on the link:../users#change-a-users-password[Change Password] API.

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON
----
include::../../../../src/json/login/login-change-password-response.json[]
----

|204
|The login is pending action by the end user. Wait and try the request again.

|212
|The user's email address has not yet been verified. The response will contain the User object that was authenticated.

|242
|The user was authenticated successfully. The user has two factor authentication enabled, the response will contain the `twoFactorId` to be used
on the link:../login#complete-two-factor-authentication[Complete Two Factor Authentication].

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON
----
include::../../../../src/json/login/login-two-factor-response.json[]
----

|400
|The request was invalid and/or malformed. The response will contain an link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/errors[Errors] JSON Object with the specific errors.

|401
|Unable to complete the login request. The user cannot be reconciled or logged in using the external identity provider.

|404
|The user was not found or the password was incorrect. The response will be empty.

|409
|The user is currently in an action that has prevented login. The response will contain the actions that prevented login.

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON
----
include::../../../../src/json/login/login-prevented-response.json[]
----

|410
|The user has expired. The response will be empty.

|500
|There was an internal error. A stack trace is provided and logged in the FusionAuth log files. The response will be empty.

|503
|The search index is not available or encountered an exception so the request cannot be completed. The response will contain a JSON body.
|===

:login_response:
include::../_user-response-body.adoc[]
:login_response!:

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Response Cookies
|===
|[field]#access_token# [type]#[String]#
|The access token, this string is an encoded JSON Web Token (JWT). This cookie is written in the response as an HTTP Only session cookie.

|[field]#refresh_token# [type]#[String]#
|The refresh token. This cookie is written in the response as an HTTP only persistent cookie. The cookie expiration is configured in the JWT
configuration for the application or the global JWT configuration.
|===
