site/docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_identity-provider-login-request-body.adoc, before:

==== Request Body

[.api]
[field]#applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Application the user is to be logged into. This application must have {loginProvider} login enabled for this request to succeed.

[field]#identityProviderId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The unique Id of the identity provider to process this login request.
+
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "Apple"]
For the {loginProvider} identity provider, this value will always be `13d2a5db-7ef9-4d62-b909-0df58612e775`.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "Facebook"]
For the {loginProvider} identity provider, this value will always be `56abdcc7-8bd9-4321-9621-4e9bbebae494`.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "Google"]
For the {loginProvider} identity provider, this value will always be `82339786-3dff-42a6-aac6-1f1ceecb6c46`.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "HYPR"]
For the {loginProvider} identity provider, this value will always be `778985b7-6fd8-414d-acf2-94f18fb7c7e0`.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "Twitter"]
For the {loginProvider} identity provider, this value will always be `45bb233c-0901-4236-b5ca-ac46e2e0a5a5`.
endif::[]

[field]#ipAddress# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#::
The IP address of the end-user that is logging into FusionAuth. If this value is omitted FusionAuth will attempt to obtain the IP address of
the client, the value will be that of the `X-Forwarded-For` header if provided or the last proxy that sent the request. The IP address will
be stored in the User login history.

ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "Apple"]
[field]#data.appleUser# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#::
The Apple user object. The first time a user completes the Sign in with Apple flow a user object will be returned, when this occurs pass it in using this property. During subsequent authentication requests to Apple the user object will not be returned.

[field]#data.code# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The authorization code returned from the Sign in with Apple.

[field]#data.id_token# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The Apple `id_token` returned during Sign in with Apple.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "Facebook"]
[field]#data.token# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The Facebook access token returned from their login API. This token will be sent to the Facebook Me Graph API as the `access_token` parameter.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "Google"]
[field]#data.token# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The Google id token returned from their login API. This token will be sent to the Google OAuth Token Info API as the `id_token` parameter.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "HYPR"]
[field]#data.code# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The `code` returned from the Start Login API.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "SAML v2"]
[field]#data.samlResponse# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The `SAMLResponse` parameter from the form submit (via a `POST` request) from the SAML v2 identity provider.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "Twitter"]
[field]#data.oauth_token# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The Twitter oauth token returned from their login API. This token will be sent to the Twitter OAuth Access Token API as the `oauth_token` parameter.

[field]#data.oauth_token_secret# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The Twitter oauth token secret returned from their login API. This token will be used to sign the request to the OAuth Access Token API.

[field]#data.oauth_verifier# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The Twitter oauth verifier returned from their login API. This token will be sent to the Twitter OAuth Access Token API in the request body as the `oauth_verifier` parameter.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "OpenID Connect"]
[field]#data.code# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The authorization code, this is the `code` parameter that was returned on the Authorization redirect URI. This code will be sent to the Token endpoint as the `code` parameter.

[field]#data.redirect_uri# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The redirect URI that was provided to the OpenID Connect Authorization endpoint. This value will be sent to the Token endpoint as the `redirect_uri` parameter.
endif::[]

[field]#metaData.device.description# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#::
A human readable description of the device represented by the `device` parameter.

[field]#metaData.device.lastAccessedAddress# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#::
The IP address of this login request.

[field]#metaData.device.name# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#::
A human readable name of the device represented by the `device` parameter.

[field]#metaData.device.type# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#::
The type of device represented by the `device` parameter. The following types may be specified:
+
* `BROWSER`
* `DESKTOP`
* `LAPTOP`
* `MOBILE`
* `OTHER`
* `SERVER`
* `TABLET`
* `TV`
* `UNKNOWN`

[field]#noJWT# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#::
When this value is set to true a JWT will not be issued as part of this request. The response body will not contain the `token` field, and the `access_token` and `refresh_token` cookies will not be written to the HTTP response.
+
This optional parameter may be helpful when performing high volume authentication requests and the JWT is not being utilized, in this scenario removing the additional latency required to issue and sign the JWT may have a measurable cumulative effect on performance.

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "Apple"]
include::../../../../src/json/identity-providers/login/apple-request.json[]
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "Facebook"]
include::../../../../src/json/identity-providers/login/facebook-request.json[]
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "Google"]
include::../../../../src/json/identity-providers/login/google-request.json[]
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "HYPR"]
include::../../../../src/json/identity-providers/login/hypr-request.json[]
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "Twitter"]
include::../../../../src/json/identity-providers/login/twitter-request.json[]
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "OpenID Connect"]
include::../../../../src/json/identity-providers/login/openid-connect-request.json[]
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "SAML v2"]
include::../../../../src/json/identity-providers/login/samlv2-request.json[]
endif::[]
----

Commit message:

Fix missing parameter on the Apple IdP login API. https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-issues/issues/778

site/docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_identity-provider-login-request-body.adoc, after:

==== Request Body

[.api]
[field]#applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Application the user is to be logged into. This application must have {loginProvider} login enabled for this request to succeed.

[field]#identityProviderId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The unique Id of the identity provider to process this login request.
+
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "Apple"]
For the {loginProvider} identity provider, this value will always be `13d2a5db-7ef9-4d62-b909-0df58612e775`.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "Facebook"]
For the {loginProvider} identity provider, this value will always be `56abdcc7-8bd9-4321-9621-4e9bbebae494`.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "Google"]
For the {loginProvider} identity provider, this value will always be `82339786-3dff-42a6-aac6-1f1ceecb6c46`.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "HYPR"]
For the {loginProvider} identity provider, this value will always be `778985b7-6fd8-414d-acf2-94f18fb7c7e0`.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "Twitter"]
For the {loginProvider} identity provider, this value will always be `45bb233c-0901-4236-b5ca-ac46e2e0a5a5`.
endif::[]

[field]#ipAddress# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#::
The IP address of the end-user that is logging into FusionAuth. If this value is omitted FusionAuth will attempt to obtain the IP address of
the client, the value will be that of the `X-Forwarded-For` header if provided or the last proxy that sent the request. The IP address will
be stored in the User login history.

ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "Apple"]
[field]#data.appleUser# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#::
The Apple user object. The first time a user completes the Sign in with Apple flow a user object will be returned, when this occurs pass it in using this property. During subsequent authentication requests to Apple the user object will not be returned.

[field]#data.code# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The authorization code returned from the Sign in with Apple.

[field]#data.id_token# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The Apple `id_token` returned during Sign in with Apple.

[field]#data.redirect_uri# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The authorized redirect URI from your Sign in with Apple configuration. This value will be the publicly available URL of FusionAuth with the `/oauth2/callback` suffix.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "Facebook"]
[field]#data.token# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The Facebook access token returned from their login API. This token will be sent to the Facebook Me Graph API as the `access_token` parameter.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "Google"]
[field]#data.token# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The Google id token returned from their login API. This token will be sent to the Google OAuth Token Info API as the `id_token` parameter.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "HYPR"]
[field]#data.code# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The `code` returned from the Start Login API.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "SAML v2"]
[field]#data.samlResponse# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The `SAMLResponse` parameter from the form submit (via a `POST` request) from the SAML v2 identity provider.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "Twitter"]
[field]#data.oauth_token# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The Twitter oauth token returned from their login API. This token will be sent to the Twitter OAuth Access Token API as the `oauth_token` parameter.

[field]#data.oauth_token_secret# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The Twitter oauth token secret returned from their login API. This token will be used to sign the request to the OAuth Access Token API.

[field]#data.oauth_verifier# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The Twitter oauth verifier returned from their login API. This token will be sent to the Twitter OAuth Access Token API in the request body as the `oauth_verifier` parameter.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "OpenID Connect"]
[field]#data.code# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The authorization code, this is the `code` parameter that was returned on the Authorization redirect URI. This code will be sent to the Token endpoint as the `code` parameter.

[field]#data.redirect_uri# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The redirect URI that was provided to the OpenID Connect Authorization endpoint. This value will be sent to the Token endpoint as the `redirect_uri` parameter.
endif::[]

[field]#metaData.device.description# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#::
A human readable description of the device represented by the `device` parameter.

[field]#metaData.device.lastAccessedAddress# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#::
The IP address of this login request.

[field]#metaData.device.name# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#::
A human readable name of the device represented by the `device` parameter.

[field]#metaData.device.type# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#::
The type of device represented by the `device` parameter. The following types may be specified:
+
* `BROWSER`
* `DESKTOP`
* `LAPTOP`
* `MOBILE`
* `OTHER`
* `SERVER`
* `TABLET`
* `TV`
* `UNKNOWN`

[field]#noJWT# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#::
When this value is set to true a JWT will not be issued as part of this request. The response body will not contain the `token` field, and the `access_token` and `refresh_token` cookies will not be written to the HTTP response.
+
This optional parameter may be helpful when performing high volume authentication requests and the JWT is not being utilized, in this scenario removing the additional latency required to issue and sign the JWT may have a measurable cumulative effect on performance.

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "Apple"]
include::../../../../src/json/identity-providers/login/apple-request.json[]
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "Facebook"]
include::../../../../src/json/identity-providers/login/facebook-request.json[]
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "Google"]
include::../../../../src/json/identity-providers/login/google-request.json[]
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "HYPR"]
include::../../../../src/json/identity-providers/login/hypr-request.json[]
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "Twitter"]
include::../../../../src/json/identity-providers/login/twitter-request.json[]
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "OpenID Connect"]
include::../../../../src/json/identity-providers/login/openid-connect-request.json[]
endif::[]
ifeval::["{loginProvider}" == "SAML v2"]
include::../../../../src/json/identity-providers/login/samlv2-request.json[]
endif::[]
----
