site/docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_lookup-response-body.adoc, before:

==== Example Response JSON

[.api]
[field]#identityProvider.id# [type]#[UUID]#::
The unique Id of the Identity Provider.

[field]#identityProvider.applicationIds# [type]#[Array<UUID>]# [since]#Available since 1.16.0#::
The list of Application Ids that are enabled for this Identity Provider.

[field]#identityProvider.name# [type]#[String]#::
The name of the Identity Provider.

[field]#identityProvider.idpEndpoint# [type]#[String]# [since]#Available since 1.16.0#::
The configured SAML v2 endpoint. This value will only be returned for a SAML v2 Identity Provider. This may be used to aid in building the SAML request so that it does not need to be hard coded in your application.

[field]#identityProvider.oauth2.authorization_endpoint# [type]#[String]#::
The OAuth2 Authorize endpoint. This may be used to as the redirect location to begin the authorize workflow so that it does not need to be hard coded in your application.

[field]#identityProvider.oauth2.token_endpoint# [type]#[String]#::
The OAuth2 Token endpoint. This may be used during your integration so that this URI does not need to be hard coded in your application.

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON for an ExternalJWT or OpenID Connect IdP
----
include::../../../../src/json/identity-providers/lookup/response.json[]
----

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON for a SAML v2 IdP
----
include::../../../../src/json/identity-providers/lookup/samlv2/response.json[]
----

Commit message:

Fixed forms/form-fields errors Updated API docs to account for insertInstant/lastUpdateInstant for the following APIs: Action User Consent Family Group Identity Provider - and all providers Key Lambda Tenant

site/docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_lookup-response-body.adoc, after:

==== Example Response JSON

[.api]

[field]#identityProvider.applicationIds# [type]#[Array<UUID>]# [since]#Available since 1.16.0#::
The list of Application Ids that are enabled for this Identity Provider.

[field]#identityProvider.id# [type]#[UUID]#::
The unique Id of the Identity Provider.

[field]#identityProvider.idpEndpoint# [type]#[String]# [since]#Available since 1.16.0#::
The configured SAML v2 endpoint. This value will only be returned for a SAML v2 Identity Provider. This may be used to aid in building the SAML request so that it does not need to be hard coded in your application.

[field]#identityProvider.insertInstant# [type]#[Long]#::
The link:/docs/v1/tech/reference/data-types#instants[instant] that the provider was added to the FusionAuth database.

[field]#identityProvider.lastUpdateInstant# [type]#[Long]#::
The link:/docs/v1/tech/reference/data-types#instants[instant] that the provider was updated in the FusionAuth database.

[field]#identityProvider.name# [type]#[String]#::
The name of the Identity Provider.

[field]#identityProvider.oauth2.authorization_endpoint# [type]#[String]#::
The OAuth2 Authorize endpoint. This may be used to as the redirect location to begin the authorize workflow so that it does not need to be hard coded in your application.

[field]#identityProvider.oauth2.token_endpoint# [type]#[String]#::
The OAuth2 Token endpoint. This may be used during your integration so that this URI does not need to be hard coded in your application.

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON for an ExternalJWT or OpenID Connect IdP
----
include::../../../../src/json/identity-providers/lookup/response.json[]
----

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON for a SAML v2 IdP
----
include::../../../../src/json/identity-providers/lookup/samlv2/response.json[]
----
