site/docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/external-jwt.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: External JWT Identity Provider APIs
description: APIs for creating, retrieving, updating and deleting external JWT identity providers
---

== Overview

[NOTE.since]
====
This API has been available since 1.1.0
====

This is a special type of identity provider that is only used via the link:../jwt#reconcile-a-jwt[JWT Reconcile] API. This identity provider defines the claims inside the incoming JWT and how they map to fields in the FusionAuth User object.

In order for this identity provider to use the JWT, it also needs the public key or HMAC secret that the JWT was signed with. FusionAuth will verify that the JWT is valid and has not expired. Once the JWT has been validated, FusionAuth will reconcile it to ensure that the User exists and is up-to-date.

=== Operations

* <<Create an External JWT Identity Provider>>
* <<Retrieve an External JWT Identity Provider>>
* <<Update an External JWT Identity Provider>>
* <<Delete an External JWT Identity Provider>>

== Create an External JWT Identity Provider

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Create an Identity Provider using a randomly generated id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/identity-provider#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Create an Identity Provider with the provided unique id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/`\{identityProviderId\}`#
--

The [field]#type# property in the request JSON is used to determine that you are managing an External JWT identity provider.

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#identityProviderId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to secure random UUID#::
The Id to use for the new Identity Provider. If an id is not provided, a secure random UUID is generated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_external-jwt-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

:never_search_error:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]
:never_search_error!:

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_external-jwt-response-body.adoc[]

== Retrieve an External JWT Identity Provider

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Retrieve an external JWT Identity Provider by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/`\{identityProviderId\}`#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#identityProviderId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The unique Id of the Identity Provider to retrieve.

=== Response

:never_search_error:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]
:never_search_error!:

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_external-jwt-response-body.adoc[]


== Update an External JWT Identity Provider

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Update an Identity Provider
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/`\{identityProviderId\}`#
--

:api_endpoint: pass:normal[/api/identity-provider/`\{identityProviderId\}`]
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_patch-support.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_external-jwt-request-body.adoc[]


==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#identityProviderId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The unique Id of the Identity Provider to update.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_external-jwt-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the external JWT Identity Provider that was updated.

:never_search_error:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-put-response-codes.adoc[]
:never_search_error!:

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_external-jwt-response-body.adoc[]

== Delete an External JWT Identity Provider

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Delete an Identity Provider by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/`\{identityProviderId\}`#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#identityProviderId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The unique Id of the Identity Provider to delete.

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

:never_search_error:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc[]
:never_search_error!:

Commit message:

Fixed relative links in docs and expert advice

site/docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/external-jwt.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: External JWT Identity Provider APIs
description: APIs for creating, retrieving, updating and deleting external JWT identity providers
---

== Overview

[NOTE.since]
====
This API has been available since 1.1.0
====

This is a special type of identity provider that is only used via the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/jwt#reconcile-a-jwt[JWT Reconcile] API. This identity provider defines the claims inside the incoming JWT and how they map to fields in the FusionAuth User object.

In order for this identity provider to use the JWT, it also needs the public key or HMAC secret that the JWT was signed with. FusionAuth will verify that the JWT is valid and has not expired. Once the JWT has been validated, FusionAuth will reconcile it to ensure that the User exists and is up-to-date.

=== Operations

* <<Create an External JWT Identity Provider>>
* <<Retrieve an External JWT Identity Provider>>
* <<Update an External JWT Identity Provider>>
* <<Delete an External JWT Identity Provider>>

== Create an External JWT Identity Provider

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Create an Identity Provider using a randomly generated id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/identity-provider#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Create an Identity Provider with the provided unique id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/`\{identityProviderId\}`#
--

The [field]#type# property in the request JSON is used to determine that you are managing an External JWT identity provider.

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#identityProviderId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to secure random UUID#::
The Id to use for the new Identity Provider. If an id is not provided, a secure random UUID is generated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_external-jwt-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

:never_search_error:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]
:never_search_error!:

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_external-jwt-response-body.adoc[]

== Retrieve an External JWT Identity Provider

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Retrieve an external JWT Identity Provider by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/`\{identityProviderId\}`#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#identityProviderId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The unique Id of the Identity Provider to retrieve.

=== Response

:never_search_error:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]
:never_search_error!:

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_external-jwt-response-body.adoc[]


== Update an External JWT Identity Provider

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Update an Identity Provider
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/`\{identityProviderId\}`#
--

:api_endpoint: pass:normal[/api/identity-provider/`\{identityProviderId\}`]
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_patch-support.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_external-jwt-request-body.adoc[]


==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#identityProviderId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The unique Id of the Identity Provider to update.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_external-jwt-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the external JWT Identity Provider that was updated.

:never_search_error:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-put-response-codes.adoc[]
:never_search_error!:

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_external-jwt-response-body.adoc[]

== Delete an External JWT Identity Provider

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Delete an Identity Provider by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/`\{identityProviderId\}`#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#identityProviderId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The unique Id of the Identity Provider to delete.

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

:never_search_error:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc[]
:never_search_error!:
