site/docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/hypr.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: HYPR Identity Provider APIs
description: APIs for creating, retrieving, updating and disabling the HYPR identity provider
---

== Overview

[NOTE.since]
====
This API has been available since 1.12..0
====

=== Operations

* <<Create the HYPR Identity Provider>>
* <<Retrieve the HYPR Identity Provider>>
* <<Update the HYPR Identity Provider>>
* <<Delete the HYPR Identity Provider>>
* <<Start the HYPR Login Request>>
* <<Complete the HYPR Login>>

== Create the HYPR Identity Provider

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Create the HYPR Identity Provider
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/identity-provider#
--

The [field]#type# property in the request JSON is used to determine that you are managing the HYPR identity provider.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_hypr-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_hypr-response-body.adoc[]

== Retrieve the HYPR Identity Provider

There is only one HYPR Identity Provider, so this Identity Provider may be retrieved by type or Id.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Retrieve the HYPR Identity Provider by type
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/identity-provider``?type=HYPR``#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Retrieve the HYPR Identity Provider by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/`778985b7-6fd8-414d-acf2-94f18fb7c7e0`#
--

=== Response

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_hypr-response-body.adoc[]

== Update the HYPR Identity Provider

There is only one HYPR Identity Provider, so this Identity Provider may be updated by type or Id.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Update the HYPR Identity Provider by type
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/identity-provider``?type=HYPR``#
--

:api_endpoint: pass:normal[/api/identity-provider``?type=HYPR``]
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_patch-support.adoc[]

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Update the HYPR Identity Provider by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/`778985b7-6fd8-414d-acf2-94f18fb7c7e0`#
--

:api_endpoint: pass:normal[/api/identity-provider/`778985b7-6fd8-414d-acf2-94f18fb7c7e0`]
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_patch-support.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_hypr-request-body.adoc[]


=== Response

The response for this API contains the HYPR Identity Provider.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-put-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_hypr-response-body.adoc[]

== Delete the HYPR Identity Provider

There is only one HYPR Identity Provider, so this Identity Provider may be deleted by type or Id.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Delete the HYPR Identity Provider by type
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/identity-provider``?type=HYPR``#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Delete the HYPR Identity Provider by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/`778985b7-6fd8-414d-acf2-94f18fb7c7e0`#
--

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc[]

== Start the HYPR Login Request

This API is used to initiate a HYPR login request when integrating without the FusionAuth hosted login pages.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#no-authentication-required[icon:unlock-alt[role=green,type=far]] Start a login request
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/start#
--

:loginProvider: HYPR
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_identity-provider-start-request-body.adoc[]
:loginProvider!:

=== Response

The response for this API contains a code that can be used to complete the login request.

:loginProvider: HYPR
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_identity-provider-start-response-body.adoc[]
:loginProvider!:

== Complete the HYPR Login

This API allows you to complete a HYPR login after authenticating externally using a HYPR application. If you are using the FusionAuth login UI you will not utilize this API directly.

This API is intended to be used if you want to build your own login page and you have enabled the HYPR identity provider and you then need to complete the login with FusionAuth.

The user does not need to exist yet in FusionAuth to utilize this API. If a user with the email address used to initiate the request with HYPR does not yet exist in FusionAuth the user will be created. If create registration has been enabled for this identity provider and the user does not yet have a registration for this application, a registration will be automatically created for the user. The user will be assigned any default roles configured for the application. If create registration has not been enabled, a registration will not be created if one does not yet exist. This last scenario is useful if you wish to manually provision users and then subsequently allow them to login with HYPR.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#no-authentication-required[icon:unlock-alt[role=green,type=far]] Complete HYPR Login
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/login#
--

:loginProvider: HYPR
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_identity-provider-login-request-body.adoc[]
:loginProvider!:

=== Response

The response for this API contains the User object.

:loginProvider: HYPR
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_identity-provider-login-response-body.adoc[]
:loginProvider!:

Commit message:

Add X-FusionAuth-Tenant-Id header doc to API calls

site/docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/hypr.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: HYPR Identity Provider APIs
description: APIs for creating, retrieving, updating and disabling the HYPR identity provider
---

== Overview

[NOTE.since]
====
This API has been available since 1.12..0
====

=== Operations

* <<Create the HYPR Identity Provider>>
* <<Retrieve the HYPR Identity Provider>>
* <<Update the HYPR Identity Provider>>
* <<Delete the HYPR Identity Provider>>
* <<Start the HYPR Login Request>>
* <<Complete the HYPR Login>>

== Create the HYPR Identity Provider

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Create the HYPR Identity Provider
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/identity-provider#
--

The [field]#type# property in the request JSON is used to determine that you are managing the HYPR identity provider.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_hypr-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_hypr-response-body.adoc[]

== Retrieve the HYPR Identity Provider

There is only one HYPR Identity Provider, so this Identity Provider may be retrieved by type or Id.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Retrieve the HYPR Identity Provider by type
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/identity-provider``?type=HYPR``#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Retrieve the HYPR Identity Provider by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/`778985b7-6fd8-414d-acf2-94f18fb7c7e0`#
--

=== Response

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_hypr-response-body.adoc[]

== Update the HYPR Identity Provider

There is only one HYPR Identity Provider, so this Identity Provider may be updated by type or Id.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Update the HYPR Identity Provider by type
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/identity-provider``?type=HYPR``#
--

:api_endpoint: pass:normal[/api/identity-provider``?type=HYPR``]
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_patch-support.adoc[]

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Update the HYPR Identity Provider by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/`778985b7-6fd8-414d-acf2-94f18fb7c7e0`#
--

:api_endpoint: pass:normal[/api/identity-provider/`778985b7-6fd8-414d-acf2-94f18fb7c7e0`]
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_patch-support.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_hypr-request-body.adoc[]


=== Response

The response for this API contains the HYPR Identity Provider.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-put-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_hypr-response-body.adoc[]

== Delete the HYPR Identity Provider

There is only one HYPR Identity Provider, so this Identity Provider may be deleted by type or Id.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Delete the HYPR Identity Provider by type
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/identity-provider``?type=HYPR``#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Delete the HYPR Identity Provider by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/`778985b7-6fd8-414d-acf2-94f18fb7c7e0`#
--

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc[]

== Start the HYPR Login Request

This API is used to initiate a HYPR login request when integrating without the FusionAuth hosted login pages.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#no-authentication-required[icon:unlock-alt[role=green,type=far]] Start a login request
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/start#
--

:loginProvider: HYPR
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_identity-provider-start-request-body.adoc[]
:loginProvider!:

=== Response

The response for this API contains a code that can be used to complete the login request.

:loginProvider: HYPR
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_identity-provider-start-response-body.adoc[]
:loginProvider!:

== Complete the HYPR Login

This API allows you to complete a HYPR login after authenticating externally using a HYPR application. If you are using the FusionAuth login UI you will not utilize this API directly.

This API is intended to be used if you want to build your own login page and you have enabled the HYPR identity provider and you then need to complete the login with FusionAuth.

The user does not need to exist yet in FusionAuth to utilize this API. If a user with the email address used to initiate the request with HYPR does not yet exist in FusionAuth the user will be created. If create registration has been enabled for this identity provider and the user does not yet have a registration for this application, a registration will be automatically created for the user. The user will be assigned any default roles configured for the application. If create registration has not been enabled, a registration will not be created if one does not yet exist. This last scenario is useful if you wish to manually provision users and then subsequently allow them to login with HYPR.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#no-authentication-required[icon:unlock-alt[role=green,type=far]] Complete HYPR Login
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/login#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Headers
|===
|[field]#X-Forwarded-For# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The IP address of a client requesting authentication. If the IP address is provided it will be stored for login history of the user. It is generally preferred to specify the IP address in the request body. If it is not provided in the request body this header value will be used if available, the request body value will take precedence.
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation-row-only.adoc[]
|===

:loginProvider: HYPR
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_identity-provider-login-request-body.adoc[]
:loginProvider!:

=== Response

The response for this API contains the User object.

:loginProvider: HYPR
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_identity-provider-login-response-body.adoc[]
:loginProvider!:
