site/docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/twitter.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Twitter Identity Provider APIs
description: APIs for creating, retrieving, updating and disabling the Twitter identity providers
---

== Overview

[NOTE.since]
====
This API has been available since 1.1.0
====

The Twitter identity provider type will use the Twitter OAuth v1.0 login API. it will provide a `Login with Twitter` button on FusionAuth's login page that will leverage the Twitter login page directly. Additionally, this identity provider will call Twitter's `/1.1/account/verify_credentials.json` API to load additional details about the user and store them in FusionAuth. Here are the user details from the Twitter API that FusionAuth stores and the User object fields they are stored in:

* `email` -> `email`
* `name` -> `fullName`
* `profile_image_url_https` -> `imageUrl`
* `screen_name` -> `username` (this is stored as the `username` in the UserRegistration object since it is not unique)

Twitter does not require a user to have an email address. However, to prevent account hijacking and take-over, FusionAuth prevents users from logging in with Twitter unless they have setup an email address in their Twitter account. Keep this in mind as you enable this identity provider.

Finally, FusionAuth stores the Twitter access token that is returned from the OAuth v1.0 login workflow in the `UserRegistration` object inside the `tokens` Map. This Map stores the tokens from the various identity providers so that you can use them in your application to call their APIs.

=== Operations

* <<Create the Twitter Identity Provider>>
* <<Retrieve the Twitter Identity Provider>>
* <<Update the Twitter Identity Provider>>
* <<Delete the Twitter Identity Provider>>
* <<Complete the Twitter Login>>

== Create the Twitter Identity Provider

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Create the Twitter Identity Provider
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/identity-provider#
--

The [field]#type# property in the request JSON is used to determine that you are managing the TWitter identity provider.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_twitter-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_twitter-response-body.adoc[]

== Retrieve the Twitter Identity Provider

There is only one Twitter Identity Provider, so this Identity Provider may be retrieved by type or Id.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Retrieve the Twitter Identity Provider by type
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/identity-provider``?type=Twitter``#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Retrieve the Twitter Identity Provider by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/`45bb233c-0901-4236-b5ca-ac46e2e0a5a5`#
--

=== Response

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_twitter-response-body.adoc[]

== Update the Twitter Identity Provider

There is only one Twitter Identity Provider, so this Identity Provider may be updated by type or Id.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Update the Twitter Identity Provider by type
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/identity-provider``?type=Twitter``#
--

:api_endpoint: pass:normal[/api/identity-provider``?type=Twitter``]
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_patch-support.adoc[]

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Update the Twitter Identity Provider by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/`45bb233c-0901-4236-b5ca-ac46e2e0a5a5`#
--

:api_endpoint: pass:normal[/api/identity-provider/`45bb233c-0901-4236-b5ca-ac46e2e0a5a5`]
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_patch-support.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_twitter-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the Twitter Identity Provider.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-put-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_twitter-response-body.adoc[]

== Delete the Twitter Identity Provider

There is only one Twitter Identity Provider, so this Identity Provider may be deleted by type or Id.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Delete the Twitter Identity Provider by type
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/identity-provider``?type=Twitter``#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Delete the Twitter Identity Provider by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/`45bb233c-0901-4236-b5ca-ac46e2e0a5a5`#
--

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc[]

== Complete the Twitter Login

This API allows you to complete a Twitter login after authenticating a user using the Twitter API. If you are using the FusionAuth login UI with the Twitter button you will not utilize this API directly.

This API is intended to be used if you want to build your own login page and you have added the Twitter login button to your own login page and you then need to complete the login with FusionAuth.

For example, if you built your own login page, you could add a Login with Twitter button and complete the Twitter authentication. When you complete the Twitter authentication you will have been returned several tokens from Twitter. Using this API you can pass those tokens returned from Twitter to FusionAuth and we will complete the login workflow and reconcile the user to FusionAuth.

The user does not need to exist yet in FusionAuth to utilize this API. The token returned from Twitter will be used to retrieve the user's email address, if that user does not yet exist in FusionAuth the user will be created. If create registration has been enabled for this identity provider and the user does not yet have a registration for this application, a registration will be automatically created for the user. The user will be assigned any default roles configured for the application. If create registration has not been enabled, a registration will not be created if one does not yet exist. This last scenario is useful if you wish to manually provision users and then subsequently allow them to login with Twitter.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#no-authentication-required[icon:unlock-alt[role=green,type=far]] Complete Twitter Login
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/login#
--

:loginProvider: Twitter
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_identity-provider-login-request-body.adoc[]
:loginProvider!:

=== Response

The response for this API contains the User object.

:loginProvider: Twitter
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_identity-provider-login-response-body.adoc[]
:loginProvider!:

Commit message:

Add X-FusionAuth-Tenant-Id header doc to API calls

site/docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/twitter.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Twitter Identity Provider APIs
description: APIs for creating, retrieving, updating and disabling the Twitter identity providers
---

== Overview

[NOTE.since]
====
This API has been available since 1.1.0
====

The Twitter identity provider type will use the Twitter OAuth v1.0 login API. it will provide a `Login with Twitter` button on FusionAuth's login page that will leverage the Twitter login page directly. Additionally, this identity provider will call Twitter's `/1.1/account/verify_credentials.json` API to load additional details about the user and store them in FusionAuth. Here are the user details from the Twitter API that FusionAuth stores and the User object fields they are stored in:

* `email` -> `email`
* `name` -> `fullName`
* `profile_image_url_https` -> `imageUrl`
* `screen_name` -> `username` (this is stored as the `username` in the UserRegistration object since it is not unique)

Twitter does not require a user to have an email address. However, to prevent account hijacking and take-over, FusionAuth prevents users from logging in with Twitter unless they have setup an email address in their Twitter account. Keep this in mind as you enable this identity provider.

Finally, FusionAuth stores the Twitter access token that is returned from the OAuth v1.0 login workflow in the `UserRegistration` object inside the `tokens` Map. This Map stores the tokens from the various identity providers so that you can use them in your application to call their APIs.

=== Operations

* <<Create the Twitter Identity Provider>>
* <<Retrieve the Twitter Identity Provider>>
* <<Update the Twitter Identity Provider>>
* <<Delete the Twitter Identity Provider>>
* <<Complete the Twitter Login>>

== Create the Twitter Identity Provider

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Create the Twitter Identity Provider
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/identity-provider#
--

The [field]#type# property in the request JSON is used to determine that you are managing the TWitter identity provider.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_twitter-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_twitter-response-body.adoc[]

== Retrieve the Twitter Identity Provider

There is only one Twitter Identity Provider, so this Identity Provider may be retrieved by type or Id.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Retrieve the Twitter Identity Provider by type
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/identity-provider``?type=Twitter``#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Retrieve the Twitter Identity Provider by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/`45bb233c-0901-4236-b5ca-ac46e2e0a5a5`#
--

=== Response

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_twitter-response-body.adoc[]

== Update the Twitter Identity Provider

There is only one Twitter Identity Provider, so this Identity Provider may be updated by type or Id.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Update the Twitter Identity Provider by type
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/identity-provider``?type=Twitter``#
--

:api_endpoint: pass:normal[/api/identity-provider``?type=Twitter``]
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_patch-support.adoc[]

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Update the Twitter Identity Provider by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/`45bb233c-0901-4236-b5ca-ac46e2e0a5a5`#
--

:api_endpoint: pass:normal[/api/identity-provider/`45bb233c-0901-4236-b5ca-ac46e2e0a5a5`]
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_patch-support.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_twitter-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the Twitter Identity Provider.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-put-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_twitter-response-body.adoc[]

== Delete the Twitter Identity Provider

There is only one Twitter Identity Provider, so this Identity Provider may be deleted by type or Id.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Delete the Twitter Identity Provider by type
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/identity-provider``?type=Twitter``#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Delete the Twitter Identity Provider by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/`45bb233c-0901-4236-b5ca-ac46e2e0a5a5`#
--

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc[]

== Complete the Twitter Login

This API allows you to complete a Twitter login after authenticating a user using the Twitter API. If you are using the FusionAuth login UI with the Twitter button you will not utilize this API directly.

This API is intended to be used if you want to build your own login page and you have added the Twitter login button to your own login page and you then need to complete the login with FusionAuth.

For example, if you built your own login page, you could add a Login with Twitter button and complete the Twitter authentication. When you complete the Twitter authentication you will have been returned several tokens from Twitter. Using this API you can pass those tokens returned from Twitter to FusionAuth and we will complete the login workflow and reconcile the user to FusionAuth.

The user does not need to exist yet in FusionAuth to utilize this API. The token returned from Twitter will be used to retrieve the user's email address, if that user does not yet exist in FusionAuth the user will be created. If create registration has been enabled for this identity provider and the user does not yet have a registration for this application, a registration will be automatically created for the user. The user will be assigned any default roles configured for the application. If create registration has not been enabled, a registration will not be created if one does not yet exist. This last scenario is useful if you wish to manually provision users and then subsequently allow them to login with Twitter.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:../authentication#no-authentication-required[icon:unlock-alt[role=green,type=far]] Complete Twitter Login
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/login#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Headers
|===
|[field]#X-Forwarded-For# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The IP address of a client requesting authentication. If the IP address is provided it will be stored for login history of the user. It is generally preferred to specify the IP address in the request body. If it is not provided in the request body this header value will be used if available, the request body value will take precedence.
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation-row-only.adoc[]
|===

:loginProvider: Twitter
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_identity-provider-login-request-body.adoc[]
:loginProvider!:

=== Response

The response for this API contains the User object.

:loginProvider: Twitter
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_identity-provider-login-response-body.adoc[]
:loginProvider!:
