site/docs/v1/tech/reference/configuration.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Configuration Reference
description: A complete list of the configuration options in the fusionauth.properties file
---

:sectnumlevels: 0
== Configuration Reference

Much of the FusionAuth configuration is performed in the UI. Some additional advanced configuration is provided through a configuration file.
You may modify this file in order to change your configuration, FusionAuth will need to be restarted to pick up changes to this configuration.
Assuming you installed in the default locations, the configuration file may be found in the following directory. If you have installed in an
alternate location the path to this file will be different.

[.command-line]
.Linux and macOS
----
/usr/local/fusionauth/config/fusionauth.properties
----

[.command-line]
.Windows
----
\fusionauth\config\fusionauth.properties
----

This table contains all of the configuration options available in the `fusionauth.properties` file.

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Properties
|===
|[field]#database.url# [type]#[String]#
|The JDBC connection URL to your database. The following are example values.

- Example MySQL URL: `database.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/fusionauth?serverTimezone=UTC`
- Example PostgreSQL URL: `database.url=jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/fusionauth`

If you are using MySQL, you must include the `serverTimezone=UTC` parameter in the URL. The `?` character is the same as a standard URL parameter, so if you have additional parameters, you should only have a single `?` and parameters should be separated by `&`.

|[field]#database.username# [type]#[String]#
|The username used to connect to the database.

|[field]#database.password# [type]#[String]#
|The password used to connect to the database.

|[field]#database.mysql.enforce-utf8mb4# [type]#[String]# [default]#defaults to `true`#
|When set to `true` and using MySQL, full 4 byte unique configuration is enforced at startup.

If this validation is not desired or not it is not possible to modify your MySQL configuration so satisfy the validation, disable this check
by setting this value to `false`.

|[field]#fusionauth-search.transport-port# [type]#[Integer]# [default]#defaults to `9020`#
|The port that the search engine will use for optimized TCP communications instead of HTTP communications. This port is used internally by the search engine to communicate between clustered nodes.

|[field]#fusionauth-search.http-port# [type]#[Integer]# [default]#defaults to `9021`#
|The port number that the Search Engine will use to accept HTTP requests. This value is also utilized by FusionAuth to make HTTP
requests to the FusionAuth Search.

|[field]#fusionauth-search.memory# [type]#[String (Memory)]# [default]#defaults to `256M`#
|
include::docs/v1/tech/reference/_property-memory.adoc[]

|[field]#fusionauth-search.additional-java-args# [type]#[String]#
|
include::docs/v1/tech/reference/_property-additional-jvm-args.adoc[]

|[field]#fusionauth-search.hosts# [type]#[String]# [default]#defaults to `\_local_`#
|This parameter indicates which address or network interfaces to bind during service startup. The default value will cause the service to bind  any
loopback address on the system such as `127.0.0.1`.

This default value is sufficient for running FusionAuth and the Search Engine on the same server. If you run FusionAuth Search on a separate system than
FusionAuth App you will need to modify this value. You may specify a single hostname or IP address or one of the special values in any combination.

Special values include:

* `\_[networkInterface]_` - Addresses of a network interface, for example `\_en0_`
* `\_local_` - Any loopback address on the system, for example `127.0.0.1`
* `\_site_` - Any site-local addresses on the system, for example `192.168.0.1`.
* `\_global_` - Any globally-scoped addresses on the system, for example `8.8.8.8`.

The following is an example to bind to `localhost` as well as any site local addresses on the system such at `192.168.1.42`.

[block-quote]#`fusionauth-search.hosts=\_local_,\_site_`#

|[field]#fusionauth-search.servers# [type]#[String]# [default]#defaults to `localhost:9020`#
|A comma separated list of stand-alone search engine servers that will be used by FusionAuth. The port specified on the server should be the
Search Engine Transport port, not the HTTP port.

The following is an example of a configuration for two separate search engines, one running on localhost and the other is on remote system.

[block-quote]#`fusionauth-search.servers=localhost:9020,search2.example.com:9020`#

This configuration value is used by the FusionAuth Search and the FusionAuth App services. Even when running FusionAuth App without
FusionAuth Search on the same server this configuration value will need to be provided.

|[field]#fusionauth-search.data-directory# [type]#[String (Path)]#
|The location on disk where FusionAuth Search will store its data. This value is defaulted if not specified and generally should not be modified.

|[field]#fusionauth-app.public-url# [type]#[String]# [deprecated]#Deprecated#
|The FusionAuth App URL that is used to communicate with other FusionAuth nodes. This value is defaulted if not specified to use a localhost address or a site local if available. Unless you have multiple FusionAuth nodes the generated value should always work. You may need to manually specify this value if you have multiple FusionAuth nodes and the only way the nodes can communicate is on a public network.

Once available use `fusionauth-app.url` instead.

|[field]#fusionauth-app.search-servers# [type]#[String]# [default]#defaults to `http://localhost:9021`#
|A comma separated list of URLS that will be used by FusionAuth to connect to the search engine. The port specified on the URL should
be the Search Engine HTTP port. (see `fusionauth-search.http-port`) It is not recommended to ever run the FusionAuth Search open
to the public internet.

Generally this should be the same list provided by `fusionauth-search.servers` except this list will be a list of URLs and this value
is utilized by the FusionAuth webservice. If this property is not defined it will be generated based upon the value of `fusionauth-search.servers`.

The following is an example of a configuration for two separate search engines, one running on localhost and the other is on a remote system.

[block-quote]#`fusionauth-app.search-servers=http://localhost:9021,http://search2.example.com:9021`#

|[field]#fusionauth-app.management-port# [type]#[Integer]# [default]#defaults to `9010`#
|The port number used for internal Tomcat administration.

|[field]#fusionauth-app.http-port# [type]#[Integer]# [default]#defaults to `9011`#
|The port number that FusionAuth will use to accept HTTP requests.

|[field]#fusionauth-app.https-port# [type]#[Integer]# [default]#defaults to `9013`#
|The port number that FusionAuth will use to accept HTTPS requests.

|[field]#fusionauth-app.ajp-port# [type]#[Integer]# [default]#defaults to `9019`#
|The port number that FusionAuth will use to accept AJP requests.

|[field]#fusionauth-app.memory# [type]#[String]# [default]#defaults to `256M`#
|
include::docs/v1/tech/reference/_property-memory.adoc[]

|[field]#fusionauth-app.additional-java-args# [type]#[String]#
|
include::docs/v1/tech/reference/_property-additional-jvm-args.adoc[]

|[field]#fusionauth-app.url# [type]#[String]# [since]#Available Since 1.4.0#
|The FusionAuth App URL that is used to communicate with other FusionAuth nodes. This value is defaulted if not specified to use a localhost address or a site local if available. Unless you have multiple FusionAuth nodes the generated value should always work. You may need to manually specify this value if you have multiple FusionAuth nodes and the only way the nodes can communicate is on a public network.
|===

Commit message:

Update user search documentation for database search

site/docs/v1/tech/reference/configuration.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Configuration Reference
description: A complete list of the configuration options in the fusionauth.properties file
---

:sectnumlevels: 0
== Configuration Reference

Much of the FusionAuth configuration is performed in the UI. Some additional advanced configuration is provided through a configuration file.
You may modify this file in order to change your configuration, FusionAuth will need to be restarted to pick up changes to this configuration.
Assuming you installed in the default locations, the configuration file may be found in the following directory. If you have installed in an
alternate location the path to this file will be different.

[.command-line]
.Linux and macOS
----
/usr/local/fusionauth/config/fusionauth.properties
----

[.command-line]
.Windows
----
\fusionauth\config\fusionauth.properties
----

This table contains all of the configuration options available in the `fusionauth.properties` file.

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Properties
|===
|[field]#database.url# [type]#[String]#
|The JDBC connection URL to your database. The following are example values.

- Example MySQL URL: `database.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/fusionauth?serverTimezone=UTC`
- Example PostgreSQL URL: `database.url=jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/fusionauth`

If you are using MySQL, you must include the `serverTimezone=UTC` parameter in the URL. The `?` character is the same as a standard URL parameter, so if you have additional parameters, you should only have a single `?` and parameters should be separated by `&`.

|[field]#database.username# [type]#[String]#
|The username used to connect to the database.

|[field]#database.password# [type]#[String]#
|The password used to connect to the database.

|[field]#database.mysql.enforce-utf8mb4# [type]#[String]# [default]#defaults to `true`#
|When set to `true` and using MySQL, full 4 byte unique configuration is enforced at startup.

If this validation is not desired or not it is not possible to modify your MySQL configuration so satisfy the validation, disable this check
by setting this value to `false`.

|[field]#fusionauth-search.transport-port# [type]#[Integer]# [default]#defaults to `9020`#
|The port that the search engine will use for optimized TCP communications instead of HTTP communications. This port is used internally by the search engine to communicate between clustered nodes.

|[field]#fusionauth-search.http-port# [type]#[Integer]# [default]#defaults to `9021`#
|The port number that the Search Engine will use to accept HTTP requests. This value is also utilized by FusionAuth to make HTTP
requests to the FusionAuth Search.

|[field]#fusionauth-search.memory# [type]#[String (Memory)]# [default]#defaults to `256M`#
|
include::docs/v1/tech/reference/_property-memory.adoc[]

|[field]#fusionauth-search.additional-java-args# [type]#[String]#
|
include::docs/v1/tech/reference/_property-additional-jvm-args.adoc[]

|[field]#fusionauth-search.hosts# [type]#[String]# [default]#defaults to `\_local_`#
|This parameter indicates which address or network interfaces to bind during service startup. The default value will cause the service to bind  any
loopback address on the system such as `127.0.0.1`.

This default value is sufficient for running FusionAuth and the Search Engine on the same server. If you run FusionAuth Search on a separate system than
FusionAuth App you will need to modify this value. You may specify a single hostname or IP address or one of the special values in any combination.

Special values include:

* `\_[networkInterface]_` - Addresses of a network interface, for example `\_en0_`
* `\_local_` - Any loopback address on the system, for example `127.0.0.1`
* `\_site_` - Any site-local addresses on the system, for example `192.168.0.1`.
* `\_global_` - Any globally-scoped addresses on the system, for example `8.8.8.8`.

The following is an example to bind to `localhost` as well as any site local addresses on the system such at `192.168.1.42`.

[block-quote]#`fusionauth-search.hosts=\_local_,\_site_`#

|[field]#fusionauth-search.servers# [type]#[String]# [default]#defaults to `localhost:9020`#
|A comma separated list of stand-alone search engine servers that will be used by FusionAuth. The port specified on the server should be the
Search Engine Transport port, not the HTTP port.

The following is an example of a configuration for two separate search engines, one running on localhost and the other is on remote system.

[block-quote]#`fusionauth-search.servers=localhost:9020,search2.example.com:9020`#

This configuration value is used by the FusionAuth Search and the FusionAuth App services. Even when running FusionAuth App without
FusionAuth Search on the same server this configuration value will need to be provided.

|[field]#fusionauth-search.data-directory# [type]#[String (Path)]#
|The location on disk where FusionAuth Search will store its data. This value is defaulted if not specified and generally should not be modified.

|[field]#fusionauth-app.public-url# [type]#[String]# [deprecated]#Deprecated#
|The FusionAuth App URL that is used to communicate with other FusionAuth nodes. This value is defaulted if not specified to use a localhost address or a site local if available. Unless you have multiple FusionAuth nodes the generated value should always work. You may need to manually specify this value if you have multiple FusionAuth nodes and the only way the nodes can communicate is on a public network.

Once available use `fusionauth-app.url` instead.

|[field]#fusionauth-app.search-engine-type# [type]#[String]# [default]#defaults to `database`# [since]#Available Since 1.16.0#
|The search engine type.  The possible values are:

* `database`
* `elasticsearch`

When configuring the search engine type to `elasticsearch`, you must configure the [field]#fusionauth-app.search-servers# property as well.

|[field]#fusionauth-app.search-servers# [type]#[String]# [default]#defaults to `http://localhost:9021`#
|A comma separated list of URLS that will be used by FusionAuth to connect to the search engine. The port specified on the URL should
be the Search Engine HTTP port. (see `fusionauth-search.http-port`) It is not recommended to ever run the FusionAuth Search open
to the public internet.

Generally this should be the same list provided by `fusionauth-search.servers` except this list will be a list of URLs and this value
is utilized by the FusionAuth webservice. If this property is not defined it will be generated based upon the value of `fusionauth-search.servers`.

The following is an example of a configuration for two separate search engines, one running on localhost and the other is on a remote system.

[block-quote]#`fusionauth-app.search-servers=http://localhost:9021,http://search2.example.com:9021`#

|[field]#fusionauth-app.management-port# [type]#[Integer]# [default]#defaults to `9010`#
|The port number used for internal Tomcat administration.

|[field]#fusionauth-app.http-port# [type]#[Integer]# [default]#defaults to `9011`#
|The port number that FusionAuth will use to accept HTTP requests.

|[field]#fusionauth-app.https-port# [type]#[Integer]# [default]#defaults to `9013`#
|The port number that FusionAuth will use to accept HTTPS requests.

|[field]#fusionauth-app.ajp-port# [type]#[Integer]# [default]#defaults to `9019`#
|The port number that FusionAuth will use to accept AJP requests.

|[field]#fusionauth-app.memory# [type]#[String]# [default]#defaults to `256M`#
|
include::docs/v1/tech/reference/_property-memory.adoc[]

|[field]#fusionauth-app.additional-java-args# [type]#[String]#
|
include::docs/v1/tech/reference/_property-additional-jvm-args.adoc[]

|[field]#fusionauth-app.url# [type]#[String]# [since]#Available Since 1.4.0#
|The FusionAuth App URL that is used to communicate with other FusionAuth nodes. This value is defaulted if not specified to use a localhost address or a site local if available. Unless you have multiple FusionAuth nodes the generated value should always work. You may need to manually specify this value if you have multiple FusionAuth nodes and the only way the nodes can communicate is on a public network.
|===
