site/docs/v1/tech/reference/cors.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: CORS Reference
description: Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) configuration
---

== Overview

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS[Cross-Origin Resources Sharing] (CORS) provide a mechanism to control permission
to resources on a server on a different domain or origin than the originating request. Practically, this means that in order to make HTTP requests in JavaScript to FusionAuth when the request
is coming from a different domain, CORS needs to be configured to allow the request.

Most of the time this works as designed, you do not need to think much about CORS configuration. In some cases you may find the configuration is restricting the way you want to use FusionAuth. If this happens FusionAuth allows you to modify or disable the CORS filter.

== Configuration

[NOTE.since]
====
Available Since Version 1.8.0.
====

To modify the default CORS configuration navigate to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> System -> CORS#. Please utilize caution when modifying this configuration, with great power comes great responsibility.

image::cors-settings.png[CORS Configuration,width=1200,role=shadowed]

=== Form Fields

[.api]
[field]#Enabled#::
When enabled, the CORS filter will process requests made to FusionAuth.

[field]#Allow credentials#::
The `Access-Control-Allow-Credentials` response header values as described by https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Access-Control-Allow-Credentials[MDN Access-Control-Allow-Credentials].

[field]#Allowed headers#::
The `Access-Control-Allow-Headers` response header values as described by https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Access-Control-Allow-Headers[MDN Access-Control-Allow-Headers].

[field]#Allowed methods#::
The `Access-Control-Allow-Methods` response header values as described by https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Access-Control-Allow-Methods[MDN Access-Control-Allow-Methods].

[field]#Allowed origins#::
The `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` response header values as described by https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Access-Control-Allow-Origin[MDN Access-Control-Allow-Origin]. If the wildcard `*` is specified, no additional domains may be specified.

[field]#Exposed headers#::
The `Access-Control-Expose-Headers` response header values as described by https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Access-Control-Expose-Headers[MDN Access-Control-Expose-Headers].

[field]#Preflight max age#::
The `Access-Control-Max-Age` response header values as described by https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Access-Control-Max-Age[MDN Access-Control-Max-Age].

=== CORS Excluded URI Paths
We have excluded some paths from FusionAuth CORS filtering in order to force same-origin browser requests on these paths. The following are the URL patterns excluded from our CORS filter.

* `/account*`
* `/admin*`
* `/support*`
* `/ajax*`

== Default Configuration

The following reference has been provided in case you want to return the CORS filter configuration to the original values provided by FusionAuth.

////
Internal Note: This needs to match our shipped CORS configuration. See Migration_1_8_0.java
////

=== Default Configuration

[.api]
[field]#Enabled#::
`true`

[field]#Allow credentials#::
`false`

[field]#Allowed headers#::
`Accept`, `Access-Control-Request-Headers`, `Access-Control-Request-Method`, `Authorization`, `Content-Type`, `Last-Modified`, `Origin`, `X-FusionAuth-TenantId`, `X-Requested-With`

[field]#Allowed methods#::
* `GET`
* `OPTIONS`

[field]#Allowed origins#::
None

[field]#Exposed headers#::
* `Access-Control-Allow-Origin`
* `Access-Control-Allow-Credentials`

[field]#Preflight max age#::
`1800`

Commit message:

Add the Debug flag to the CORS reference.

site/docs/v1/tech/reference/cors.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: CORS Reference
description: Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) configuration
---

== Overview

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS[Cross-Origin Resources Sharing] (CORS) provide a mechanism to control permission
to resources on a server on a different domain or origin than the originating request. Practically, this means that in order to make HTTP requests in JavaScript to FusionAuth when the request
is coming from a different domain, CORS needs to be configured to allow the request.

Most of the time this works as designed, you do not need to think much about CORS configuration. In some cases you may find the configuration is restricting the way you want to use FusionAuth. If this happens FusionAuth allows you to modify or disable the CORS filter.

== Configuration

[NOTE.since]
====
Available Since Version 1.8.0.
====

To modify the default CORS configuration navigate to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> System -> CORS#. Please utilize caution when modifying this configuration, with great power comes great responsibility.

image::cors-settings.png[CORS Configuration,width=1200,role=shadowed]

=== Form Fields

[.api]
[field]#Enabled#::
When enabled, the CORS filter will process requests made to FusionAuth.

[field]#Allow credentials#::
The `Access-Control-Allow-Credentials` response header values as described by https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Access-Control-Allow-Credentials[MDN Access-Control-Allow-Credentials].

[field]#Allowed headers#::
The `Access-Control-Allow-Headers` response header values as described by https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Access-Control-Allow-Headers[MDN Access-Control-Allow-Headers].

[field]#Allowed methods#::
The `Access-Control-Allow-Methods` response header values as described by https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Access-Control-Allow-Methods[MDN Access-Control-Allow-Methods].

[field]#Allowed origins#::
The `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` response header values as described by https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Access-Control-Allow-Origin[MDN Access-Control-Allow-Origin]. If the wildcard `*` is specified, no additional domains may be specified.

[field]#Exposed headers#::
The `Access-Control-Expose-Headers` response header values as described by https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Access-Control-Expose-Headers[MDN Access-Control-Expose-Headers].

[field]#Preflight max age#::
The `Access-Control-Max-Age` response header values as described by https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Access-Control-Max-Age[MDN Access-Control-Max-Age].

[field]#Debug enabled# [since]#Available since 1.25.0#::
Enable debug to create an event log to assist you in debugging `403` HTTP response codes. When enabled, a Debug event log will be created when the FusionAuth CORS filter returns a `403` detailing the reason for the response to assist you in configuration.

=== CORS Excluded URI Paths
We have excluded some paths from FusionAuth CORS filtering in order to force same-origin browser requests on these paths. The following are the URL patterns excluded from our CORS filter.

* `/account*`
* `/admin*`
* `/support*`
* `/ajax*`

== Default Configuration

The following reference has been provided in case you want to return the CORS filter configuration to the original values provided by FusionAuth.

////
Internal Note: This needs to match our shipped CORS configuration. See Migration_1_8_0.java
////

=== Default Configuration

[.api]
[field]#Enabled#::
`true`

[field]#Allow credentials#::
`false`

[field]#Allowed headers#::
`Accept`, `Access-Control-Request-Headers`, `Access-Control-Request-Method`, `Authorization`, `Content-Type`, `Last-Modified`, `Origin`, `X-FusionAuth-TenantId`, `X-Requested-With`

[field]#Allowed methods#::
* `GET`
* `OPTIONS`

[field]#Allowed origins#::
None

[field]#Exposed headers#::
* `Access-Control-Allow-Origin`
* `Access-Control-Allow-Credentials`

[field]#Preflight max age#::
`1800`
