site/docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/_fast-path-install.adoc, before:

=== macOS

[source,title=Install in your current working directory using ZIP packages]
----
sh -c "curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-install/master/install.sh | sh"
----

[source,title="Install in your current working directory using ZIP packages, include Elasticsearch"]
----
sh -c "curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-install/master/install.sh | sh -s - -s"
----

=== Linux

[source,title=Install in your current working directory using ZIP packages]
----
sh -c "curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-install/master/install.sh | sh -s - -z"
----

[source,title="Install in your current working directory using ZIP packages, include Elasticsearch"]
----
sh -c "curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-install/master/install.sh | sh -s - -z -s"
----

[source,title="Install for all users on the system using DEB or RPM packages, requires sudo access"]
----
sh -c "curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-install/master/install.sh | sh"
----

[source,title="Install for all users on the system using DEB or RPM packages, include Elasticsearch, requires sudo access"]
----
sh -c "curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-install/master/install.sh | sh -s - -s"
----

=== Windows

[source,title=Install in your current working directory using ZIP packages]
----
. { iwr -useb https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-install/master/install.ps1 } | iex; install
----

[source,title="Install in your current working directory using ZIP packages, include Elasticsearch"]
----
. { iwr -useb https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-install/master/install.ps1 } | iex; install -includeSearch 1
----

Commit message:

Notes to register service for Windows

site/docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/_fast-path-install.adoc, after:

=== macOS

[source,title=Install in your current working directory using ZIP packages]
----
sh -c "curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-install/master/install.sh | sh"
----

[source,title="Install in your current working directory using ZIP packages, include Elasticsearch"]
----
sh -c "curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-install/master/install.sh | sh -s - -s"
----

=== Linux

[source,title=Install in your current working directory using ZIP packages]
----
sh -c "curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-install/master/install.sh | sh -s - -z"
----

[source,title="Install in your current working directory using ZIP packages, include Elasticsearch"]
----
sh -c "curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-install/master/install.sh | sh -s - -z -s"
----

[source,title="Install for all users on the system using DEB or RPM packages, requires sudo access"]
----
sh -c "curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-install/master/install.sh | sh"
----

[source,title="Install for all users on the system using DEB or RPM packages, include Elasticsearch, requires sudo access"]
----
sh -c "curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-install/master/install.sh | sh -s - -s"
----

=== Windows

[source,title=Install in your current working directory using ZIP packages]
----
. { iwr -useb https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-install/master/install.ps1 } | iex; install
REM Optionally register the service with the following commands
cd fusionauth\fusionauth-app\apache-tomcat\bin
FusionAuthApp.exe /install
----

[source,title="Install in your current working directory using ZIP packages, include Elasticsearch"]
----
. { iwr -useb https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-install/master/install.ps1 } | iex; install -includeSearch 1
REM Optionally register the service with the following commands
cd fusionauth\fusionauth-app\apache-tomcat\bin
FusionAuthApp.exe /install
----
