site/docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/cloud.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: FusionAuth Cloud
description: FusionAuth Cloud is FusionAuth in the cloud, managed by us
---

== Overview 

FusionAuth Cloud is an entirely managed FusionAuth instance in the cloud. As the owner of that server, you have complete access to the administrative user interface and can create API keys and manage the instance via client libraries or APIs. But you have no access to the servers or networks where the instance runs.

With FusionAuth Cloud, you create "deployments". A deployment is a FusionAuth instance, a database, a search application, and all the necessary networking configuration to connect your FusionAuth deployment to the internet. 

You can create as many deployments as you want and tear them down when you do not need them. You pay only for the time each deployment is running.

Every deployment is separated, both logically and physically, from every other deployment. There is no network path between deployments except over the internet. There is no shared database or other storage infrastructure.

* <<Why Use FusionAuth Cloud>>
* <<What Does FusionAuth Cloud Cost>>
* <<How To Use FusionAuth Cloud>>
** <<Portal Sections>>
** <<Setting Up Your Account and Billing>>
** <<Creating a Deployment>>
** <<Managing Your Deployments>>
** <<Upgrading a Deployment>>
** <<Destroying a Deployment>>
* <<Modifying Deployments>>
* <<Accessing User Data>>
** <<Restoring From Backup>>
* <<Support>>
* <<Custom FusionAuth Cloud Features>>
* <<Limits>>

== Why Use FusionAuth Cloud

FusionAuth Cloud is a fully managed service which can be used for many use cases. Among them:

* Proof of concepts 
* FusionAuth trials
* Testing new versions without affecting prod
* Development servers
* High availability production environments

With FusionAuth Cloud, spin up a functioning FusionAuth instance in minutes. This allows you to get to work testing or integrating with FusionAuth, rather than installing or configuring it. FusionAuth Cloud is protected by world class security measures and DDOS protections.

If you want to use FusionAuth and hand all the management burden to the team who built it, FusionAuth Cloud is a good choice.

== What Does FusionAuth Cloud Cost

Unlike other installation options, **FusionAuth Cloud costs money**. You cannot create a FusionAuth Cloud deployment without a credit card or invoicing agreement.

For full pricing information as well as different deployment architectures, visit link:/pricing/cloud/[the pricing page, window="_blank"]. 

You can also find the expected cost without creating an account by using the link:https://account.fusionauth.io/price-calculator[pricing calculator, window="_blank"]. You can choose the cloud option, the deployment region, and the number of monthly active users.

image::installation-guides/cloud/pricing-calculator.png[Select your hosting package and get an estimated price,width=1200]

== How To Use FusionAuth Cloud

There are a few steps to getting access to a deployment. Some occur once, others happen every time a new deployment is created. 

Control all aspects of FusionAuth Cloud deployments by logging into the link:https://account.fusionauth.io/[account portal, window="_blank"]. 

=== Portal Sections

Your account portal contains the following tabs:

* [breadcrumb]#Editions# - select or modify the account's FusionAuth edition. More details on the link:/pricing/[edition differences here]. This is also where you will find your license keys if you are not using the Community edition.
* [breadcrumb]#Deployments# - configure and manage FusionAuth Cloud deployments.
* [breadcrumb]#Users# - add and remove users from the account portal.
* [breadcrumb]#Billing# - add or update your billing information.
* [breadcrumb]#Support# - learn more about support options or open a support ticket.

[NOTE.info]
====
Adding a user to your company will allow them to manage FusionAuth deployments and take other account portal actions. This action will *not* provision the user an account on the FusionAuth instance in the deployment.
====

=== Setting Up Your Account and Billing

Before you can create a FusionAuth deployment, you register for a free account and provide payment information. Register by going to https://account.fusionauth.io/[the account portal]. 

If you already have an account, you can log in.

image::installation-guides/cloud/login-screen.png[Log in to your account,width=1200,roles=bottom-cropped,top-cropped]

If you do not have an account, follow the "Create an account" link. On the registration form, you'll be prompted for an email, password and other required information.

image::installation-guides/cloud/register.png[Registering for an account,width=1200,roles=bottom-cropped,top-cropped]

After you register, you'll be taken to the [breadcrumb]#Billing# tab. When you have no billing information on file, you'll need to provide that before creating a deployment.

image::installation-guides/cloud/add-billing-information.png[Entering billing information,width=1200]

You can navigate away from the [breadcrumb]#Billing# tab and explore other areas of the account portal. For example, you can add other users. But before creating a FusionAuth Cloud deployment, provide credit card details. 

If you'd prefer to be invoiced rather than provide credit card details, link:/contact/[contact us].

After you have created an account and set up your billing information, create a deployment. 

=== Creating a Deployment

Navigate to the [breadcrumb]#Deployments# tab. If you have no deployments, you will see a screen like this:

image::installation-guides/cloud/deployments-tab-no-deployments.png[On the Deployments tab with no deployments,width=1200,roles=bottom-cropped]

Click the "Launch" button to start your first FusionAuth Cloud deployment.

==== Provisioning Your Deployment

In order to create the correct FusionAuth instance, you need to specify aspects of the deployment. Pick the tier of this deployment: Basic, Business or High-Availability. Each has different features and data durability guarantees.

image::installation-guides/cloud/provisioning-select-tier.png[Selecting your desired tier on the provisioning screen,width=1200]

Supported regions include:

* North America 
* Europe
* Asia Pacific
* South America 
* the Middle East 

Within each region, select a geographic area, such as Oregon, USA. Pick the location that meets your legal and compliance needs and is close to your applications.

image::installation-guides/cloud/provisioning-select-region.png[Choosing your region,width=1200]

Next, pick the deployment size. This section includes guidance on how many logins per second can be supported. 

You can also specify the FusionAuth version and data compliance attributes of this deployment.

You must provide a unique hostname for the deployment, such as `piedpiper-dev`. This hostname will be suffixed with the `fusionauth.io` domain name, unless you chose the High-Availability tier. If you need to reuse an existing hostname, open a https://account.fusionauth.io/account/support/[support ticket].

image::installation-guides/cloud/provisioning-select-size-url.png[Choosing your deployment size and hostname,width=1200]

[NOTE]
====
The screenshots above are for a Basic FusionAuth Cloud deployment. Different deployments will show different options. For example, the Business or High-Availability tiers allow you to choose to replicate your data to another database in FusionAuth Cloud to increase availability.
====

At the end of the provisioning process, before your credit card is charged, you will be provided an estimate of the monthly cost. 

When you have your deployment configured as you would like, click "Launch Deployment". Your credit card will then be charged.

image::installation-guides/cloud/provisioning-show-cost-launch-deployment.png[Estimated cost is displayed,width=1200,roles=top-cropped]

==== Deployment Provisioning

Navigate to the [breadcrumb]#Deployments# tab to see the new deployment.

image::installation-guides/cloud/deployments-provisioning.png[Deployment tab when the provisioning is occurring,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

The exact duration of the deployment process depends on system load as well as the tier chosen. Expect your deployment to be available in 5 to 30 minutes. When the deployment is ready, the link to your deployment will be live and the [breadcrumb]#Deployments# tab will look similar to this:

image::installation-guides/cloud/deployments-active.png[Deployment tab when the provisioning finished,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

==== Accessing the FusionAuth UI

Log in to the deployment's administrative user interface by clicking on the deployment's URL, such as `\https://piedpiper-dev.fusionauth.io`.

At that point the link:/docs/v1/tech/tutorials/setup-wizard/[Setup Wizard] will begin. You can configure FusionAuth by creating API keys, adding additional users, setting up applications for your users to log in to, or any other task. The interface will be exactly the same as a self hosted FusionAuth instance.

If new to FusionAuth, you might want to work through the link:/docs/v1/tech/5-minute-setup-guide/#5-create-an-application-and-configure-the-oauth-settings[5 minute guide], starting at step 5, and updating the FusionAuth instance URL to point to your deployment.

=== Managing Your Deployments

At any time you can log in to the account portal, navigate to [breadcrumb]#Deployments# and manage your deployments. 

To add another deployment, click "Launch deployment". You'll go through the same provisioning workflow as above, and end up with another FusionAuth Cloud deployment.

image::installation-guides/cloud/deployments-launch-deployment.png[Launch deployment button,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

You can also upgrade or destroy each deployment. To begin either process, select the menu under "Actions":

image::installation-guides/cloud/deployments-manage.png[Manage deployment,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

=== Upgrading a Deployment

If your deployment is not running the latest version of FusionAuth, you may upgrade it. 

[NOTE]
====
The upgrade management option is only available if the deployment is not currently running the latest available FusionAuth version. 
====

There will be downtime of between 5 minutes and 60 minutes. The exact downtime duration depends on the type of deployment, amount of data in your system, and database changes required by the version upgrade. Consult the link:/docs/v1/tech/release-notes/[relevant release notes] for functional changes as well. 

Due to the downtime, it is recommended that you schedule the upgrade for a low traffic period. Test the upgrade process on development or test servers first.

It is a good idea to run the latest released version of FusionAuth, which has the latest bug fixes and features. However, you will never be forced to upgrade. 

Perform an upgrade at a time that works for your users, your team and your applications by https://account.fusionauth.io/[logging into your account]. Record the time you began the upgrade.

Navigate to the [breadcrumb]#Deployments# tab. Manage the deployment, then choose the "Upgrade" option. Select the version you are upgrading to from the [field]#Version# dropdown. 

Confirm the upgrade:

image::installation-guides/cloud/deployments-upgrade-confirm.png[Upgrading a deployment,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

After confirmation, the deployment will be in an "Upgrading" state until finished. You can monitor the upgrade by viewing the [breadcrumb]#Deployments# tab. If you need to programmatically monitor the upgrade, you can call the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/system/#retrieve-system-status[System Status API]; when it returns success, the deployment upgrade is complete.

You cannot downgrade a FusionAuth Cloud deployment version.

==== Upgrades with a High-Availability Plan

Upgrades with this tier have less downtime. 

If the release notes indicate a database migration, the upgrade process will result in a few minutes of outage. Otherwise there will be no downtime.

==== Rolling Back From a Failed Upgrade

If this happens and you identify it within your database backup retention period, open a https://account.fusionauth.io/account/support/[support ticket]. Make sure you provide the time you began the upgrade.

=== Destroying a Deployment

If you have a FusionAuth deployment and want to delete it, do so by https://account.fusionauth.io/[logging into your account]. 

[NOTE.warning]
====
Make sure you have a backup. When a deployment is destroyed, there is no way to retrieve its data. All FusionAuth Cloud backups are destroyed as well.
====

Navigate to the [breadcrumb]#Deployments# tab. Manage the deployment to be destroyed. Choose the [field]#Destroy# option.

image::installation-guides/cloud/deployments-prepare-destroy.png[Begin the process of destroying a deployment,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

You will be prompted to confirm your decision.

image::installation-guides/cloud/delete-deployment-confirm.png[Confirming the deployment destruction,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

After confirmation, the deployment will transition to the "Destroying" state.

image::installation-guides/cloud/deployments-destroying.png[The deployment is being destroyed,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

After the deployment is completely removed, it will have a "Destroyed" state on the [breadcrumb]#Deployments# tab. At this point you will no longer be charged for this deployment.

== Modifying Deployments

If you are on the High-Availability plan and want a custom domain name like `\auth.example.com`, open a https://account.fusionauth.io/account/support/[support ticket]. This is due to the required TLS certificate setup.

Open a https://account.fusionauth.io/account/support/[support ticket] to change any of the following attributes of your deployment:

* the tier
* the region or geographic location
* the size
* the hostname

== Accessing User Data

If you need to export user data from FusionAuth Cloud, whether because you are migrating away from FusionAuth, you are setting up a staging environment locally, or because you need the raw user data for analytics, open a https://account.fusionauth.io/account/support/[support ticket].

A support request is required because data exports contain sensitive fields, like password hashes. The FusionAuth team will work with you to provide a safe data transfer mechanism.

If you need to download user data regularly, consider using the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/[API] or a link:/docs/v1/tech/events-webhooks/[webhook]. If these solutions do not meet your needs, open a https://account.fusionauth.io/account/support/[support ticket] to discuss options.

=== Restoring From Backup

Certain FusionAuth Cloud tiers include regular backups. If you need to restore your user database from a backup, open a https://account.fusionauth.io/account/support/[support ticket] with the details. 

You can restore to any point in time in the last three days. In the ticket, provide the date and time and timezone that you'd like to restore your database to.

== Support

You can view support options by navigating to the [breadcrumb]#Support# tab:

image::installation-guides/cloud/support-tab.png[The support tab,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

Support for FusionAuth Cloud is limited in scope. Support can only help with issues related to running your FusionAuth Cloud deployments. Some examples: 

* "My FusionAuth Cloud instance is down" - **supported**
* "Please restore my FusionAuth Cloud instance from backup" - **supported**
* "I need help integrating FusionAuth into my Express/Rails/Django/Spring/etc application" - **not supported**
* "How do I set up a webhook to sync my user data with an external system?" - **not supported**

Support from the engineering team for integrating with FusionAuth can be link:/pricing/editions/[purchased separately]. 

If you have out of scope questions and have not purchased a support contract, you can find community support in the link:/community/forum[forums] and link:/docs/v1/tech/[documentation]. Review link:/technical-support/[the technical support page] for more detailed technical support guidance.

== Custom FusionAuth Cloud Features

If managed FusionAuth hosting does not meet your needs, open a link:/contact/[contact us] with more details. 

For instance, if you need longer retention of database backups, we're happy to discuss that with you.

== Limits

FusionAuth Cloud has the same link:/docs/v1/tech/reference/limitations/[limitations] as self hosted FusionAuth. Since it is a managed service, there are additional limitations as well:

* No access is provided to the server on which your deployment is running. This includes access to the database, Elasticsearch, or ssh. You can access your data via FusionAuth API, administrative console, and by occasionally requesting a database export.
* There is no API to manage FusionAuth Cloud deployments. 
* You cannot change any of the link:/docs/v1/tech/reference/configuration/[FusionAuth configuration options]. 
* You cannot downgrade the version of a FusionAuth Cloud deployment.
* You cannot run a link:/docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/kickstart/[Kickstart file] on a FusionAuth Cloud deployment.
* There is no support for proxy customization. You can add your own proxy layer such, as CloudFlare, with FusionAuth Cloud as an origin.

Commit message:

Added note about payment receipts.

site/docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/cloud.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: FusionAuth Cloud
description: FusionAuth Cloud is FusionAuth in the cloud, managed by us
---

== Overview 

FusionAuth Cloud is an entirely managed FusionAuth instance in the cloud. As the owner of that server, you have complete access to the administrative user interface and can create API keys and manage the instance via client libraries or APIs. But you have no access to the servers or networks where the instance runs.

With FusionAuth Cloud, you create "deployments". A deployment is a FusionAuth instance, a database, a search application, and all the necessary networking configuration to connect your FusionAuth deployment to the internet. 

You can create as many deployments as you want and tear them down when you do not need them. You pay only for the time each deployment is running.

Every deployment is separated, both logically and physically, from every other deployment. There is no network path between deployments except over the internet. There is no shared database or other storage infrastructure.

* <<Why Use FusionAuth Cloud>>
* <<What Does FusionAuth Cloud Cost>>
* <<How To Use FusionAuth Cloud>>
** <<Portal Sections>>
** <<Setting Up Your Account and Billing>>
** <<Creating a Deployment>>
** <<Managing Your Deployments>>
** <<Upgrading a Deployment>>
** <<Destroying a Deployment>>
* <<Modifying Deployments>>
* <<Accessing User Data>>
** <<Restoring From Backup>>
* <<Support>>
* <<Custom FusionAuth Cloud Features>>
* <<Limits>>

== Why Use FusionAuth Cloud

FusionAuth Cloud is a fully managed service which can be used for many use cases. Among them:

* Proof of concepts 
* FusionAuth trials
* Testing new versions without affecting prod
* Development servers
* High availability production environments

With FusionAuth Cloud, spin up a functioning FusionAuth instance in minutes. This allows you to get to work testing or integrating with FusionAuth, rather than installing or configuring it. FusionAuth Cloud is protected by world class security measures and DDOS protections.

If you want to use FusionAuth and hand all the management burden to the team who built it, FusionAuth Cloud is a good choice.

== What Does FusionAuth Cloud Cost

Unlike other installation options, **FusionAuth Cloud costs money**. You cannot create a FusionAuth Cloud deployment without a credit card or invoicing agreement.

For full pricing information as well as different deployment architectures, visit link:/pricing/cloud/[the pricing page, window="_blank"]. 

You can also find the expected cost without creating an account by using the link:https://account.fusionauth.io/price-calculator[pricing calculator, window="_blank"]. You can choose the cloud option, the deployment region, and the number of monthly active users.

image::installation-guides/cloud/pricing-calculator.png[Select your hosting package and get an estimated price,width=1200]

== How To Use FusionAuth Cloud

There are a few steps to getting access to a deployment. Some occur once, others happen every time a new deployment is created. 

Control all aspects of FusionAuth Cloud deployments by logging into the link:https://account.fusionauth.io/[account portal, window="_blank"]. 

=== Portal Sections

Your account portal contains the following tabs:

* [breadcrumb]#Editions# - select or modify the account's FusionAuth edition. More details on the link:/pricing/[edition differences here]. This is also where you will find your license keys if you are not using the Community edition.
* [breadcrumb]#Deployments# - configure and manage FusionAuth Cloud deployments.
* [breadcrumb]#Users# - add and remove users from the account portal.
* [breadcrumb]#Billing# - add or update your billing information.
* [breadcrumb]#Support# - learn more about support options or open a support ticket.

[NOTE.info]
====
Adding a user to your company will allow them to manage FusionAuth deployments and take other account portal actions. This action will *not* provision the user an account on the FusionAuth instance in the deployment.
====

=== Setting Up Your Account and Billing

Before you can create a FusionAuth deployment, you register for a free account and provide payment information. Register by going to https://account.fusionauth.io/[the account portal]. 

If you already have an account, you can log in.

image::installation-guides/cloud/login-screen.png[Log in to your account,width=1200,roles=bottom-cropped,top-cropped]

If you do not have an account, follow the "Create an account" link. On the registration form, you'll be prompted for an email, password and other required information.

image::installation-guides/cloud/register.png[Registering for an account,width=1200,roles=bottom-cropped,top-cropped]

After you register, you'll be taken to the [breadcrumb]#Billing# tab. When you have no billing information on file, you'll need to provide that before creating a deployment.

image::installation-guides/cloud/add-billing-information.png[Entering billing information,width=1200]

You can navigate away from the [breadcrumb]#Billing# tab and explore other areas of the account portal. For example, you can add other users. But before creating a FusionAuth Cloud deployment, provide credit card details. 

If you'd prefer to be invoiced rather than provide credit card details, link:/contact/[contact us]. 

If you are paying with a credit card, you will receive a payment receipt to the email address you signed up with. If you need to have the receipt sent to a different email address, please link:/contact/[contact us] and we'll change it.

After you have created an account and set up your billing information, create a deployment. 

=== Creating a Deployment

Navigate to the [breadcrumb]#Deployments# tab. If you have no deployments, you will see a screen like this:

image::installation-guides/cloud/deployments-tab-no-deployments.png[On the Deployments tab with no deployments,width=1200,roles=bottom-cropped]

Click the "Launch" button to start your first FusionAuth Cloud deployment.

==== Provisioning Your Deployment

In order to create the correct FusionAuth instance, you need to specify aspects of the deployment. Pick the tier of this deployment: Basic, Business or High-Availability. Each has different features and data durability guarantees.

image::installation-guides/cloud/provisioning-select-tier.png[Selecting your desired tier on the provisioning screen,width=1200]

Supported regions include:

* North America 
* Europe
* Asia Pacific
* South America 
* the Middle East 

Within each region, select a geographic area, such as Oregon, USA. Pick the location that meets your legal and compliance needs and is close to your applications.

image::installation-guides/cloud/provisioning-select-region.png[Choosing your region,width=1200]

Next, pick the deployment size. This section includes guidance on how many logins per second can be supported. 

You can also specify the FusionAuth version and data compliance attributes of this deployment.

You must provide a unique hostname for the deployment, such as `piedpiper-dev`. This hostname will be suffixed with the `fusionauth.io` domain name, unless you chose the High-Availability tier. If you need to reuse an existing hostname, open a https://account.fusionauth.io/account/support/[support ticket].

image::installation-guides/cloud/provisioning-select-size-url.png[Choosing your deployment size and hostname,width=1200]

[NOTE]
====
The screenshots above are for a Basic FusionAuth Cloud deployment. Different deployments will show different options. For example, the Business or High-Availability tiers allow you to choose to replicate your data to another database in FusionAuth Cloud to increase availability.
====

At the end of the provisioning process, before your credit card is charged, you will be provided an estimate of the monthly cost. 

When you have your deployment configured as you would like, click "Launch Deployment". Your credit card will then be charged.

image::installation-guides/cloud/provisioning-show-cost-launch-deployment.png[Estimated cost is displayed,width=1200,roles=top-cropped]

==== Deployment Provisioning

Navigate to the [breadcrumb]#Deployments# tab to see the new deployment.

image::installation-guides/cloud/deployments-provisioning.png[Deployment tab when the provisioning is occurring,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

The exact duration of the deployment process depends on system load as well as the tier chosen. Expect your deployment to be available in 5 to 30 minutes. When the deployment is ready, the link to your deployment will be live and the [breadcrumb]#Deployments# tab will look similar to this:

image::installation-guides/cloud/deployments-active.png[Deployment tab when the provisioning finished,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

==== Accessing the FusionAuth UI

Log in to the deployment's administrative user interface by clicking on the deployment's URL, such as `\https://piedpiper-dev.fusionauth.io`.

At that point the link:/docs/v1/tech/tutorials/setup-wizard/[Setup Wizard] will begin. You can configure FusionAuth by creating API keys, adding additional users, setting up applications for your users to log in to, or any other task. The interface will be exactly the same as a self hosted FusionAuth instance.

If new to FusionAuth, you might want to work through the link:/docs/v1/tech/5-minute-setup-guide/#5-create-an-application-and-configure-the-oauth-settings[5 minute guide], starting at step 5, and updating the FusionAuth instance URL to point to your deployment.

=== Managing Your Deployments

At any time you can log in to the account portal, navigate to [breadcrumb]#Deployments# and manage your deployments. 

To add another deployment, click "Launch deployment". You'll go through the same provisioning workflow as above, and end up with another FusionAuth Cloud deployment.

image::installation-guides/cloud/deployments-launch-deployment.png[Launch deployment button,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

You can also upgrade or destroy each deployment. To begin either process, select the menu under "Actions":

image::installation-guides/cloud/deployments-manage.png[Manage deployment,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

=== Upgrading a Deployment

If your deployment is not running the latest version of FusionAuth, you may upgrade it. 

[NOTE]
====
The upgrade management option is only available if the deployment is not currently running the latest available FusionAuth version. 
====

There will be downtime of between 5 minutes and 60 minutes. The exact downtime duration depends on the type of deployment, amount of data in your system, and database changes required by the version upgrade. Consult the link:/docs/v1/tech/release-notes/[relevant release notes] for functional changes as well. 

Due to the downtime, it is recommended that you schedule the upgrade for a low traffic period. Test the upgrade process on development or test servers first.

It is a good idea to run the latest released version of FusionAuth, which has the latest bug fixes and features. However, you will never be forced to upgrade. 

Perform an upgrade at a time that works for your users, your team and your applications by https://account.fusionauth.io/[logging into your account]. Record the time you began the upgrade.

Navigate to the [breadcrumb]#Deployments# tab. Manage the deployment, then choose the "Upgrade" option. Select the version you are upgrading to from the [field]#Version# dropdown. 

Confirm the upgrade:

image::installation-guides/cloud/deployments-upgrade-confirm.png[Upgrading a deployment,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

After confirmation, the deployment will be in an "Upgrading" state until finished. You can monitor the upgrade by viewing the [breadcrumb]#Deployments# tab. If you need to programmatically monitor the upgrade, you can call the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/system/#retrieve-system-status[System Status API]; when it returns success, the deployment upgrade is complete.

You cannot downgrade a FusionAuth Cloud deployment version.

==== Upgrades with a High-Availability Plan

Upgrades with this tier have less downtime. 

If the release notes indicate a database migration, the upgrade process will result in a few minutes of outage. Otherwise there will be no downtime.

==== Rolling Back From a Failed Upgrade

If this happens and you identify it within your database backup retention period, open a https://account.fusionauth.io/account/support/[support ticket]. Make sure you provide the time you began the upgrade.

=== Destroying a Deployment

If you have a FusionAuth deployment and want to delete it, do so by https://account.fusionauth.io/[logging into your account]. 

[NOTE.warning]
====
Make sure you have a backup. When a deployment is destroyed, there is no way to retrieve its data. All FusionAuth Cloud backups are destroyed as well.
====

Navigate to the [breadcrumb]#Deployments# tab. Manage the deployment to be destroyed. Choose the [field]#Destroy# option.

image::installation-guides/cloud/deployments-prepare-destroy.png[Begin the process of destroying a deployment,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

You will be prompted to confirm your decision.

image::installation-guides/cloud/delete-deployment-confirm.png[Confirming the deployment destruction,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

After confirmation, the deployment will transition to the "Destroying" state.

image::installation-guides/cloud/deployments-destroying.png[The deployment is being destroyed,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

After the deployment is completely removed, it will have a "Destroyed" state on the [breadcrumb]#Deployments# tab. At this point you will no longer be charged for this deployment.

== Modifying Deployments

If you are on the High-Availability plan and want a custom domain name like `\auth.example.com`, open a https://account.fusionauth.io/account/support/[support ticket]. This is due to the required TLS certificate setup.

Open a https://account.fusionauth.io/account/support/[support ticket] to change any of the following attributes of your deployment:

* the tier
* the region or geographic location
* the size
* the hostname

== Accessing User Data

If you need to export user data from FusionAuth Cloud, whether because you are migrating away from FusionAuth, you are setting up a staging environment locally, or because you need the raw user data for analytics, open a https://account.fusionauth.io/account/support/[support ticket].

A support request is required because data exports contain sensitive fields, like password hashes. The FusionAuth team will work with you to provide a safe data transfer mechanism.

If you need to download user data regularly, consider using the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/[API] or a link:/docs/v1/tech/events-webhooks/[webhook]. If these solutions do not meet your needs, open a https://account.fusionauth.io/account/support/[support ticket] to discuss options.

=== Restoring From Backup

Certain FusionAuth Cloud tiers include regular backups. If you need to restore your user database from a backup, open a https://account.fusionauth.io/account/support/[support ticket] with the details. 

You can restore to any point in time in the last three days. In the ticket, provide the date and time and timezone that you'd like to restore your database to.

== Support

You can view support options by navigating to the [breadcrumb]#Support# tab:

image::installation-guides/cloud/support-tab.png[The support tab,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

Support for FusionAuth Cloud is limited in scope. Support can only help with issues related to running your FusionAuth Cloud deployments. Some examples: 

* "My FusionAuth Cloud instance is down" - **supported**
* "Please restore my FusionAuth Cloud instance from backup" - **supported**
* "I need help integrating FusionAuth into my Express/Rails/Django/Spring/etc application" - **not supported**
* "How do I set up a webhook to sync my user data with an external system?" - **not supported**

Support from the engineering team for integrating with FusionAuth can be link:/pricing/editions/[purchased separately]. 

If you have out of scope questions and have not purchased a support contract, you can find community support in the link:/community/forum[forums] and link:/docs/v1/tech/[documentation]. Review link:/technical-support/[the technical support page] for more detailed technical support guidance.

== Custom FusionAuth Cloud Features

If managed FusionAuth hosting does not meet your needs, open a link:/contact/[contact us] with more details. 

For instance, if you need longer retention of database backups, we're happy to discuss that with you.

== Limits

FusionAuth Cloud has the same link:/docs/v1/tech/reference/limitations/[limitations] as self hosted FusionAuth. Since it is a managed service, there are additional limitations as well:

* No access is provided to the server on which your deployment is running. This includes access to the database, Elasticsearch, or ssh. You can access your data via FusionAuth API, administrative console, and by occasionally requesting a database export.
* There is no API to manage FusionAuth Cloud deployments. 
* You cannot change any of the link:/docs/v1/tech/reference/configuration/[FusionAuth configuration options]. 
* You cannot downgrade the version of a FusionAuth Cloud deployment.
* You cannot run a link:/docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/kickstart/[Kickstart file] on a FusionAuth Cloud deployment.
* There is no support for proxy customization. You can add your own proxy layer such, as CloudFlare, with FusionAuth Cloud as an origin.
