site/docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/docker.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Using FusionAuth on Docker
description: Deploy and test FusionAuth using a Docker container
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== Docker Compose

All of the FusionAuth Docker images may be found on https://hub.docker.com/u/fusionauth/[Docker Hub].

If you're looking for a complete configuration to get up and running quickly, use our Docker Compose example.  The reference `docker-compose.yml` will install FusionAuth without the enhanced search capability that Elasticsearch provides.  If you would like to install FusionAuth including Elasticsearch for improved search capability, include the reference `docker-compose.override.yml` in the install steps below.

The following are examples and may not be the most recent version. Refer to the following link in https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-containers/blob/master/docker/fusionauth[GitHub] to find the latest version of our reference configuration.

=== FusionAuth
In this example, we will download the `docker-compose.yml` and the `.env` files and then start up the configured containers.

[source]
----
curl -o docker-compose.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-containers/master/docker/fusionauth/docker-compose.yml
curl -o .env https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-containers/master/docker/fusionauth/.env
docker-compose up
----

=== FusionAuth with Elasticsearch
In this example, we will download the `docker-compose.yml`, `docker-compose.override.yml` and the `.env` files and then start up the configured containers.

[source]
----
curl -o docker-compose.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-containers/master/docker/fusionauth/docker-compose.yml
curl -o docker-compose.override.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-containers/master/docker/fusionauth/docker-compose.override.yml
curl -o .env https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-containers/master/docker/fusionauth/.env
docker-compose up
----

The stock `.env` file will contain the following values, you will want to modify the `DATABASE_PASSWORD` and ensure the `POSTGRES_USER` and `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` values are correct. You may also override any of these values using environment variables.

```
POSTGRES_USER=postgres
POSTGRES_PASSWORD=postgres
DATABASE_USER=fusionauth
DATABASE_PASSWORD=hkaLBM3RVnyYeYeqE3WI1w2e4Avpy0Wd5O3s3

ES_JAVA_OPTS=-Xms512m -Xmx512m

FUSIONAUTH_MEMORY=512M
```

=== Docker Compose Examples

==== FusionAuth
The following is an example `docker-compose.yml` file configuring FusionAuth without the Elasticsearch engine. For the most recent version of this example find this file on https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-containers/blob/master/docker/fusionauth[GitHub].
```yaml
version: '3'

services:
  db:
    image: postgres:9.6
    environment:
      PGDATA: /var/lib/postgresql/data/pgdata
      POSTGRES_USER: ${POSTGRES_USER}
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: ${POSTGRES_PASSWORD}
# Un-comment to access the db service directly
#    ports:
#      - 5432:5432
    networks:
      - db
    restart: unless-stopped
    volumes:
      - db_data:/var/lib/postgresql/data

  fusionauth:
    image: fusionauth/fusionauth-app:latest
    depends_on:
      - db
    environment:
      DATABASE_URL: jdbc:postgresql://db:5432/fusionauth
      DATABASE_ROOT_USER: ${POSTGRES_USER}
      DATABASE_ROOT_PASSWORD: ${POSTGRES_PASSWORD}
      DATABASE_USER: ${DATABASE_USER}
      DATABASE_PASSWORD: ${DATABASE_PASSWORD}
      FUSIONAUTH_MEMORY: ${FUSIONAUTH_MEMORY}
      FUSIONAUTH_SEARCH_ENGINE_TYPE: database
      FUSIONAUTH_URL: http://fusionauth:9011
    networks:
     - db
    restart: unless-stopped
    ports:
      - 9011:9011
    volumes:
      - fa_config:/usr/local/fusionauth/config

networks:
  db:
    driver: bridge

volumes:
  db_data:
  fa_config:
```

==== FusionAuth with Elasticsearch
The following is an example `docker-compose-override.yml` which may be included in your working directory next to the above `docker-compose.yml` to install and configure Elasticsearch. For the most recent version of this example find this file on https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-containers/blob/master/docker/fusionauth[GitHub].
```yaml
version: '3'

services:

  search:
    image: docker.elastic.co/elasticsearch/elasticsearch:7.6.2
    environment:
      cluster.name: fusionauth
      bootstrap.memory_lock: "true"
      discovery.type: single-node
      ES_JAVA_OPTS: ${ES_JAVA_OPTS}
    # Un-comment to access the search service directly
    # ports:
    #  - 9200:9200
    #  - 9300:9300
    networks:
      - search
    restart: unless-stopped
    ulimits:
      memlock:
        soft: -1
        hard: -1
    volumes:
      - es_data:/usr/share/elasticsearch/data

  fusionauth:
    depends_on:
      - search
    environment:
      FUSIONAUTH_SEARCH_ENGINE_TYPE: elasticsearch
      FUSIONAUTH_SEARCH_SERVERS: http://search:9200
    networks:
      - search

networks:
  search:
    driver: bridge

volumes:
  es_data:
```

== Configuration
Review the link:../reference/configuration#environment-variables[Configuration - Environment Variables] documentation to customize your deployment.

== Docker Services
In the above example configurations you will find a database, search and FusionAuth service. Read below to better understand how each service is configured.

=== Database Service

At a minimum, you wil need to either set the `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` environment variable in the `db` service section, or more ideally set the value in the host environment and leave it out of the `docker-compose.yml` file. Ensure the other properties fit your requirements. Refer to the link:system-requirements[System Requirements] for database version support.

=== Search Service

We currently support Elasticsearch versions 6.3.x - 7.6.x.  Later versions may works as well, but may not have been tested for compatibility.  Please let us know if you have a requirement for a different version of Elasticsearch. The remainder of the properties can be changed to whatever you need.

== Production Deployment

Elasticsearch has a few runtime requirements that may not be met by default on your host platform. Please review the Elasticsearch Docker production mode guide for more information.

* https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.6/docker.html#docker-cli-run-prod-mode

For example if startup is failing and you see the following in the logs, you will need to increase `vm.max_map_count` on your host VM.

[source]
----
2018-11-22T12:32:06.779828954Z Nov 22, 2018 12:32:06.779 PM ERROR c.inversoft.maintenance.search.ElasticsearchSilentConfigurationWorkflowTask
  - Silent configuration was unable to complete search configuration. Entering maintenance mode. State [SERVER_DOWN]

2018-11-22T13:00:05.346558595Z ERROR: [2] bootstrap checks failed
2018-11-22T13:00:05.346600195Z [1]: memory locking requested for elasticsearch process but memory is not locked
2018-11-22T13:00:05.346606495Z [2]: max virtual memory areas vm.max_map_count [65530] is too low, increase to at least [262144]
----

== Upgrading

To upgrade FusionAuth when running with `docker-compose`:

. Stop the instance: `docker-compose down`.
. Modify the `docker-compose.yml` file (or the `docker-compose.override.yml` file, if applicable) to point to the version of FusionAuth you want. You can see https://hub.docker.com/r/fusionauth/fusionauth-app[available tags].
. Start it up: `docker-compose up`.
. Login to the administrative UI. If there were migrations required, they'll be applied automatically to your database.

If you have previously been on `fusionauth/fusionauth-app:latest` you may need to remove the old image first, as otherwise the latest image won't be used: `docker rmi <old image id>`. 

This command may prompt you to remove containers using that image. Since all state is stored in the database, you can safely remove the containers.

== Docker Images

If you want to build your own image starting with our base image, the following Docker image is available.

=== FusionAuth App

```
docker pull fusionauth/fusionauth-app
```

Commit message:

Noted different behavior during runtime modes.

site/docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/docker.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Using FusionAuth on Docker
description: Deploy and test FusionAuth using a Docker container
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== Docker Compose

All of the FusionAuth Docker images may be found on https://hub.docker.com/u/fusionauth/[Docker Hub].

If you're looking for a complete configuration to get up and running quickly, use our Docker Compose example.  The reference `docker-compose.yml` will install FusionAuth without the enhanced search capability that Elasticsearch provides.  If you would like to install FusionAuth including Elasticsearch for improved search capability, include the reference `docker-compose.override.yml` in the install steps below.

The following are examples and may not be the most recent version. Refer to the following link in https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-containers/blob/master/docker/fusionauth[GitHub] to find the latest version of our reference configuration.

=== FusionAuth
In this example, we will download the `docker-compose.yml` and the `.env` files and then start up the configured containers.

[source]
----
curl -o docker-compose.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-containers/master/docker/fusionauth/docker-compose.yml
curl -o .env https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-containers/master/docker/fusionauth/.env
docker-compose up
----

=== FusionAuth with Elasticsearch
In this example, we will download the `docker-compose.yml`, `docker-compose.override.yml` and the `.env` files and then start up the configured containers.

[source]
----
curl -o docker-compose.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-containers/master/docker/fusionauth/docker-compose.yml
curl -o docker-compose.override.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-containers/master/docker/fusionauth/docker-compose.override.yml
curl -o .env https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-containers/master/docker/fusionauth/.env
docker-compose up
----

The stock `.env` file will contain the following values, you will want to modify the `DATABASE_PASSWORD` and ensure the `POSTGRES_USER` and `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` values are correct. You may also override any of these values using environment variables.

```
POSTGRES_USER=postgres
POSTGRES_PASSWORD=postgres
DATABASE_USER=fusionauth
DATABASE_PASSWORD=hkaLBM3RVnyYeYeqE3WI1w2e4Avpy0Wd5O3s3

ES_JAVA_OPTS=-Xms512m -Xmx512m

FUSIONAUTH_MEMORY=512M
```

=== Docker Compose Examples

==== FusionAuth
The following is an example `docker-compose.yml` file configuring FusionAuth without the Elasticsearch engine. For the most recent version of this example find this file on https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-containers/blob/master/docker/fusionauth[GitHub].
```yaml
version: '3'

services:
  db:
    image: postgres:9.6
    environment:
      PGDATA: /var/lib/postgresql/data/pgdata
      POSTGRES_USER: ${POSTGRES_USER}
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: ${POSTGRES_PASSWORD}
# Un-comment to access the db service directly
#    ports:
#      - 5432:5432
    networks:
      - db
    restart: unless-stopped
    volumes:
      - db_data:/var/lib/postgresql/data

  fusionauth:
    image: fusionauth/fusionauth-app:latest
    depends_on:
      - db
    environment:
      DATABASE_URL: jdbc:postgresql://db:5432/fusionauth
      DATABASE_ROOT_USER: ${POSTGRES_USER}
      DATABASE_ROOT_PASSWORD: ${POSTGRES_PASSWORD}
      DATABASE_USER: ${DATABASE_USER}
      DATABASE_PASSWORD: ${DATABASE_PASSWORD}
      FUSIONAUTH_MEMORY: ${FUSIONAUTH_MEMORY}
      FUSIONAUTH_SEARCH_ENGINE_TYPE: database
      FUSIONAUTH_URL: http://fusionauth:9011
    networks:
     - db
    restart: unless-stopped
    ports:
      - 9011:9011
    volumes:
      - fa_config:/usr/local/fusionauth/config

networks:
  db:
    driver: bridge

volumes:
  db_data:
  fa_config:
```

==== FusionAuth with Elasticsearch
The following is an example `docker-compose-override.yml` which may be included in your working directory next to the above `docker-compose.yml` to install and configure Elasticsearch. For the most recent version of this example find this file on https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-containers/blob/master/docker/fusionauth[GitHub].
```yaml
version: '3'

services:

  search:
    image: docker.elastic.co/elasticsearch/elasticsearch:7.6.2
    environment:
      cluster.name: fusionauth
      bootstrap.memory_lock: "true"
      discovery.type: single-node
      ES_JAVA_OPTS: ${ES_JAVA_OPTS}
    # Un-comment to access the search service directly
    # ports:
    #  - 9200:9200
    #  - 9300:9300
    networks:
      - search
    restart: unless-stopped
    ulimits:
      memlock:
        soft: -1
        hard: -1
    volumes:
      - es_data:/usr/share/elasticsearch/data

  fusionauth:
    depends_on:
      - search
    environment:
      FUSIONAUTH_SEARCH_ENGINE_TYPE: elasticsearch
      FUSIONAUTH_SEARCH_SERVERS: http://search:9200
    networks:
      - search

networks:
  search:
    driver: bridge

volumes:
  es_data:
```

== Configuration
Review the link:../reference/configuration#environment-variables[Configuration - Environment Variables] documentation to customize your deployment.

== Docker Services
In the above example configurations you will find a database, search and FusionAuth service. Read below to better understand how each service is configured.

=== Database Service

At a minimum, you wil need to either set the `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` environment variable in the `db` service section, or more ideally set the value in the host environment and leave it out of the `docker-compose.yml` file. Ensure the other properties fit your requirements. Refer to the link:system-requirements[System Requirements] for database version support.

=== Search Service

We currently support Elasticsearch versions 6.3.x - 7.6.x.  Later versions may works as well, but may not have been tested for compatibility.  Please let us know if you have a requirement for a different version of Elasticsearch. The remainder of the properties can be changed to whatever you need.

== Production Deployment

Elasticsearch has a few runtime requirements that may not be met by default on your host platform. Please review the Elasticsearch Docker production mode guide for more information.

* https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.6/docker.html#docker-cli-run-prod-mode

For example if startup is failing and you see the following in the logs, you will need to increase `vm.max_map_count` on your host VM.

[source]
----
2018-11-22T12:32:06.779828954Z Nov 22, 2018 12:32:06.779 PM ERROR c.inversoft.maintenance.search.ElasticsearchSilentConfigurationWorkflowTask
  - Silent configuration was unable to complete search configuration. Entering maintenance mode. State [SERVER_DOWN]

2018-11-22T13:00:05.346558595Z ERROR: [2] bootstrap checks failed
2018-11-22T13:00:05.346600195Z [1]: memory locking requested for elasticsearch process but memory is not locked
2018-11-22T13:00:05.346606495Z [2]: max virtual memory areas vm.max_map_count [65530] is too low, increase to at least [262144]
----

== Upgrading

To upgrade FusionAuth when running with `docker-compose`:

. Stop the instance: `docker-compose down`.
. Modify the `docker-compose.yml` file (or the `docker-compose.override.yml` file, if applicable) to point to the version of FusionAuth you want. You can see https://hub.docker.com/r/fusionauth/fusionauth-app[available tags].
. Start it up: `docker-compose up`.
. Login to the administrative UI. 

If there were migrations required, they'll be applied automatically to your database if the installation is link:/docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/fusionauth-app#runtime-modes[has a runtime mode of development]. If the installation is in production mode, make sure you apply the migrations out of band. 

If you have previously been on `fusionauth/fusionauth-app:latest` you may need to remove the old image first, as otherwise the latest image won't be used: `docker rmi <old image id>`. 

This command may prompt you to remove containers using that image. Since all state is stored in the database, you can safely remove the containers.

== Docker Images

If you want to build your own image starting with our base image, the following Docker image is available.

=== FusionAuth App

```
docker pull fusionauth/fusionauth-app
```
