site/docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/kickstart.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Kickstart
description: Automate development and production deployment using Kickstart
---

== Kickstart

FusionAuth Kickstart&#8482; is super easy and if you can do it with an API, you can do it in Kickstart. Kickstart allows you to build a template that will be executed during startup to quickly replicate development or production environments.

The kickstart file is a collection of one or more API keys and a list of API requests. You can call `POST`, `PUT` or `PATCH` on any API that you like and each request will be executed in order using the primary API key defined in the bootstrap file.

To kickstart FusionAuth, set an environment variable named `FUSIONAUTH_KICKSTART` that points to your kickstart file.

Kickstart will only run if no API keys, users or tenants exist, so you can safely leave this environment variable configured even after the system has been configured.

== Getting Started

Let's work from simple to complex, each example will introduce a new feature so you can learn how to best build and leverage the options available to you as you build out your kickstart file.

The examples found here, as well as community contributed examples may also be found on GitHub in the https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-kickstart[FusionAuth Kickstart repository]. If you think you've got a cool kickstart, please submit a PR, your example may really help the community.

=== The API key

Here is the simplest kickstart file you can use, it simply adds a single API key and that's it. This may be useful if you intend to complete the rest of your setup by calling APIs in your own application or development setup script.

```json
{
  "apiKeys": [
    {
      "key": "4737ea8520bd454caabb7cb3d36e14bc1832c0d3f70a4189b82598670f11b1bd"
    }
  ]
}
```

This API key can be any string, and you should specify one unique to your FusionAuth instance. This value should ideally be a long random value. Please don't use the above key in a production environment.

Because this value will primarily be used during your integration as an Authorization HTTP request header. If you utilize non-ASCII characters in your API key you will need to ensure they are properly escaped in the HTTP request header. For this reason, unless you have specific requirements, utilizing a long alphanumeric string using an underscore `_` or dash `-` for visual separation if desired will be ideal and quite sufficient to ensure a high entropy key.

==== Scoping an API key

The first API key you specify has to have authority over all tenants and permissions against all endpoints. If you want to create subsequent API keys these can optionally be scoped to a Tenant and have restrictions on which endpoints they can call.

In this example we still have the first API key with global permissions, but we will create a second API key that is restricted.

```json
{
  "apiKeys": [
    {
      "key": "4737ea8520bd454caabb7cb3d36e14bc1832c0d3f70a4189b82598670f11b1bd"
    },
    {
      "key": "0ad00c5f140c43f8bc2a155dd0edf3b7d61f5dd4011843d8a28475a0d812c033",
      "description": "Restricted API key - only for Retrieve User",
      "permissions": {
        "endpoints": {
          "/api/user": [
            "GET"
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

=== Using Variables

You may find yourself repeating yourself when you build your kickstart file, nobody likes to type the same value over and over. Use variables to help you reduce repetition.

To use a variable, define the key and value in the `variables` section of the kickstart file and then access that value anywhere outside of the `variables` section using the `#{foo}` notation where `foo` is the name of the variable.

Here is the same example as above, but instead of hard coding the API key, we are using a variable which can be reused. This example is not particularly helpful, we've only moved the value from the `apiKeys` section to the `variables` section, but using variables can come in handy as you'll see in the next few examples.

```json
{
  "variables": {
    "apiKey": "4737ea8520bd454caabb7cb3d36e14bc1832c0d3f70a4189b82598670f11b1bd"
  },
  "apiKeys": [
    {
      "key": "#{apiKey}",
      "description": "My first API Key!"
    }
  ]
}
```

=== Using Environment Variables

It is reasonable to think you may not want to hard code a password or API key in the kickstart file which could get checked into version control. You can use environment variables which should make this a bit easier for you.

To use an environment variable prefix the name of the environment variable with `ENV.`.

Here is the same example as above, but instead of hard coding the API key, we are picking it up from an environment variable. Here we will resolve the value of the API key in the environment variable named `FUSIONAUTH_API_KEY`. This value will be set into the variable `apiKey` and then when the API key is constructed the value of the API key will be resolved to the `apiKey` variable value.

```json
{
  "variables": {
    "apiKey": "#{ENV.FUSIONAUTH_API_KEY}"
  },
  "apiKeys": [
    {
      "key": "#{apiKey}"
    }
  ]
}
```

=== Adding API Requests

Now comes the interesting part. Once you have defined at least one API key, you can define one to many API requests that will be executed in order using the primary API key. You may call any API you like, but you are limited to the `POST`, `PUT` and `PATCH` HTTP methods.

Here is an example of creating a FusionAuth admin user using the `requests` object array. This example is using the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/registrations[Registration API] to create the User and registration in a single request.

You'll notice we are using a special variable that we did not define in the `variables` object. This is one of two reserved variables provided for your convenience.

* `FUSIONAUTH_APPLICATION_ID` - The Id of the FusionAuth application
* `FUSIONAUTH_TENANT_ID` - The Id of the default Tenant which is where the FusionAuth application resides

```json
{
  "variables": {
    "apiKey": "#{ENV.FUSIONAUTH_API_KEY}",
    "adminPassword": "#{ENV.FUSIONAUTH_ADMIN_PASSWORD}"
  },
  "apiKeys": [
    {
      "key": "#{apiKey}"
    }
  ],
  "requests": [
    {
      "method": "POST",
      "url": "/api/user/registration",
      "body": {
        "user": {
          "email": "monica@piedpiper.com",
          "password": "#{adminPassword}",
          "data": {
            "Company": "PiedPiper"
          }
        },
        "registration": {
          "applicationId": "#{FUSIONAUTH_APPLICATION_ID}",
          "roles": [
            "admin"
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

==== Tenants

If you don't create a tenant using the Tenant API in your kickstart file then you're all set. If you do find yourself creating more than one tenant then you will need to specify the Tenant Id on the API requests.

There is a top level property in the request called `tenantId` and you simply set that value to indicate which Tenant you wish to use.

In this example, we'll create a new application and we'll do it in a second tenant that we create. Because I need to know the `tenantId` I am generating a new UUID using the `#{UUID()}` function call and assigning that value to `secondTenantId`. Now I can re-use this value to create the tenant, and to make the Create Application API request.

This kickstart will create a second tenant named `Aviato` which will contain a single application named `My Cool Application`.

```json
{
  "variables": {
    "apiKey": "#{ENV.FUSIONAUTH_API_KEY}",
    "adminPassword": "#{ENV.FUSIONAUTH_ADMIN_PASSWORD}",
    "secondTenantId": "#{UUID()}"
  },
  "apiKeys": [
    {
      "key": "#{apiKey}"
    }
  ],
  "requests": [
    {
      "method": "POST",
      "url": "/api/tenant/#{secondTenantId}",
      "body": {
        "tenant": {
          "name": "Aviato"
        }
      }
    },
    {
      "method": "POST",
      "url": "/api/application",
      "tenantId": "#{secondTenantId}",
      "body": {
        "application": {
          "name": "My Cool Application"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

==== Tenants API Keys

An API key may also be configured to be restricted to a single tenant, as implied above. To do this, add the `tenantId` to the API key configuration.

In this example we will modify the restricted API key example from above to further limit it for use with one tenant.

```json
{
  "variables": {
    "secondTenantId": "#{UUID()}"
  },
  "apiKeys": [
    {
      "key": "4737ea8520bd454caabb7cb3d36e14bc1832c0d3f70a4189b82598670f11b1bd"
    },
    {
      "key": "0ad00c5f140c43f8bc2a155dd0edf3b7d61f5dd4011843d8a28475a0d812c033",
      "description": "Restricted API key - only for Retrieve User in Aviato",
      "permissions": {
        "endpoints": {
          "/api/user": [
            "GET"
          ]
        }
      },
      "tenantId": "#{secondTenantId}"
    }
  ],
  "requests": [
    {
      "method": "POST",
      "url": "/api/tenant/#{secondTenantId}",
      "body": {
        "tenant": {
          "name": "Aviato"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

== Advanced Concepts

=== Modify the default Tenant Id

FusionAuth generates the Id for the default tenant when the database schema is first created. For development and production environments it may be helpful to have a known tenantId for consistency across environments.

You may modify the default Tenant Id in your kickstart file by setting a special variable: `defaultTenantId`. In this example we have set the default Tenant Id to `30663132-6464-6665-3032-326466613934`. This value must be a valid UUID.

The value resolved when using the `FUSIONAUTH_TENANT_ID` variable will reflect this change.

```json
{
  "variables": {
    "defaultTenantId": "30663132-6464-6665-3032-326466613934"
  }
}
```

=== Set your License Id

If you have a paid edition you will be provided with a License Id. If you would like to set this value during kickstart you will set the value in a top level field called `licenseId`.

In this example I have a license Id of `eb7244dc-5d8e-40cd-a005-70b116fbda31`.
```json
{
  "licenseId": "eb7244dc-5d8e-40cd-a005-70b116fbda31"
}
```


=== Include Text files

When making API requests to create an Email template or request which may have lengthy values, it may be helpful to separate these values into separate files. The directories shown here are just examples, and you can use your own convention.

To include a text file in your kickstart definition, use the `@{fileName}` syntax where the `fileName` is a relative path from your kickstart file. For this type of include, we handle all line returns and properly JSON escape them for use in a JSON request body.

For example, consider the following directory structure:

```
|- kickstart.json
|- emails/
|  |- setup-password.html
|  |- setup-password.txt
```


In this example we are creating an Email template and reading in the values for the text and html values from files in a sub-directory named emails. Reading files in like this allows you to format your emails nicely and Kickstart will handle the necessary JSON escaping to complete the API request.

```json
{
  "variables": {
    "apiKey": "#{ENV.FUSIONAUTH_API_KEY}"
  },
  "apiKeys": [
    {
      "key": "#{apiKey}"
    }
  ],
  "requests": [
    {
      "method": "POST",
      "url": "/api/email/template/0502df1e-4010-4b43-b571-d423fce978b2",
      "body": {
        "emailTemplate": {
          "defaultFromName": "No Reply",
          "defaultSubject": "Setup your password",
          "defaultHtmlTemplate": "@{emails/setup-password.html}",
          "defaultTextTemplate": "@{emails/setup-password.txt}",
          "fromEmail": "no-replay@piedpiper.com",
          "name": "Setup Password"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

Newlines are preserved in included text files, whereas they are not in the kickstart file. If you are, for example, including a lambda function definition, it may lead to better readability if you include the body from a text file.

=== Include JSON files

If you're making a lot of API requests, or simply want to manage each API request body separately it may be helpful to read in external JSON files. The directories shown here are just examples, and you can use your own convention.

To include a JSON file in your kickstart definition use the `&{fileName}` syntax where the `fileName` is a relative path from your kickstart file. If this type of include is used, we expect the file to be JSON and we don't do anything with line returns.

For example, consider the following directory structure:

```
|- kickstart.json
|- emails/
|  |- setup-password.html
|  |- setup-password.txt
|- json/
|  |- setup-password.json
```

Here are the contents of the `json/setup-password.json` file, you'll see that in this example we are still reading in the values for `defaultHtmlTemplate` and `defaultTextTemplate`.

```json
{
  "emailTemplate": {
    "defaultFromName": "No Reply",
    "defaultSubject": "Setup your password",
    "defaultHtmlTemplate": "@{emails/setup-password.html}",
    "defaultTextTemplate": "@{emails/setup-password.txt}",
    "fromEmail": "no-replay@piedpiper.com",
    "name": "Setup Password"
  }
}
```

We will replicate the previous example but the entire JSON body of the request will move to `setup-password.json`.

```json
{
  "variables": {
    "apiKey": "#{ENV.FUSIONAUTH_API_KEY}"
  },
  "apiKeys": [
    {
      "key": "#{apiKey}"
    }
  ],
  "requests": [
    {
      "method": "POST",
      "url": "/api/email/template/0502df1e-4010-4b43-b571-d423fce978b2",
      "body": "&{json/setup-password.json}"
    }
  ]
}
```

You may also include an entire request using this pattern, consider the following directory structure:

```
|- kickstart.json
|- emails/
|  |- setup-password.html
|  |- setup-password.txt
|- json/
|  |- setup-password.json
|- requests/
|  |- setup-password.json
```

Here are the contents of the `requests/setup-password.json` file.

```json
{
  "method": "POST",
  "url": "/api/email/template/0502df1e-4010-4b43-b571-d423fce978b2",
  "body": {
    "emailTemplate": {
      "defaultFromName": "No Reply",
      "defaultSubject": "Setup your password",
      "defaultHtmlTemplate": "@{emails/setup-password.html}",
      "defaultTextTemplate": "@{emails/setup-password.txt}",
      "fromEmail": "no-replay@piedpiper.com",
      "name": "Setup Password"
    }
  }
}
```

And the usage in the kickstart file:

```json
{
  "variables": {
    "apiKey": "#{ENV.FUSIONAUTH_API_KEY}"
  },
  "apiKeys": [
    {
      "key": "#{apiKey}"
    }
  ],
  "requests": [
    "&{requests/setup-password.json}"
  ]
}
```

=== Reference

The following environment variables  are built in:

* `FUSIONAUTH_APPLICATION_ID` - The Id of the FusionAuth application
* `FUSIONAUTH_TENANT_ID` - The Id of the default Tenant which is where the FusionAuth application resides
 
The following functions are built in:

* `UUID()` - Provides a random UUID

The following are special variables:

* `defaultTenantId` - The Id of the default Tenant which is where the FusionAuth application resides. Set this if you'd like to control the Id.

You may not add comments to kickstart files. 

The escape character sequence is `\\`.

Commit message:

Update kickstart to reference new environment variable name.

site/docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/kickstart.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Kickstart
description: Automate development and production deployment using Kickstart
---

== Kickstart

FusionAuth Kickstart&#8482; is super easy and if you can do it with an API, you can do it in Kickstart. Kickstart allows you to build a template that will be executed during startup to quickly replicate development or production environments.

The kickstart file is a collection of one or more API keys and a list of API requests. You can call `POST`, `PUT` or `PATCH` on any API that you like and each request will be executed in order using the primary API key defined in the bootstrap file.

To kickstart FusionAuth, set an environment variable named `FUSIONAUTH_APP_KICKSTART_FILE` that points to your kickstart file, or configure `fusionauth-app.kickstart.file` in your `fusionauth.properties` file. See link:../reference/configuration[Configuration] for more options.

Kickstart will only run if no API keys, users or tenants exist, so you can safely leave this environment variable configured even after the system has been configured.

== Getting Started

Let's work from simple to complex, each example will introduce a new feature so you can learn how to best build and leverage the options available to you as you build out your kickstart file.

The examples found here, as well as community contributed examples may also be found on GitHub in the https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-kickstart[FusionAuth Kickstart repository]. If you think you've got a cool kickstart, please submit a PR, your example may really help the community.

=== The API key

Here is the simplest kickstart file you can use, it simply adds a single API key and that's it. This may be useful if you intend to complete the rest of your setup by calling APIs in your own application or development setup script.

```json
{
  "apiKeys": [
    {
      "key": "4737ea8520bd454caabb7cb3d36e14bc1832c0d3f70a4189b82598670f11b1bd"
    }
  ]
}
```

This API key can be any string, and you should specify one unique to your FusionAuth instance. This value should ideally be a long random value. Please don't use the above key in a production environment.

Because this value will primarily be used during your integration as an Authorization HTTP request header. If you utilize non-ASCII characters in your API key you will need to ensure they are properly escaped in the HTTP request header. For this reason, unless you have specific requirements, utilizing a long alphanumeric string using an underscore `_` or dash `-` for visual separation if desired will be ideal and quite sufficient to ensure a high entropy key.

==== Scoping an API key

The first API key you specify has to have authority over all tenants and permissions against all endpoints. If you want to create subsequent API keys these can optionally be scoped to a Tenant and have restrictions on which endpoints they can call.

In this example we still have the first API key with global permissions, but we will create a second API key that is restricted.

```json
{
  "apiKeys": [
    {
      "key": "4737ea8520bd454caabb7cb3d36e14bc1832c0d3f70a4189b82598670f11b1bd"
    },
    {
      "key": "0ad00c5f140c43f8bc2a155dd0edf3b7d61f5dd4011843d8a28475a0d812c033",
      "description": "Restricted API key - only for Retrieve User",
      "permissions": {
        "endpoints": {
          "/api/user": [
            "GET"
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

=== Using Variables

You may find yourself repeating yourself when you build your kickstart file, nobody likes to type the same value over and over. Use variables to help you reduce repetition.

To use a variable, define the key and value in the `variables` section of the kickstart file and then access that value anywhere outside of the `variables` section using the `#{foo}` notation where `foo` is the name of the variable.

Here is the same example as above, but instead of hard coding the API key, we are using a variable which can be reused. This example is not particularly helpful, we've only moved the value from the `apiKeys` section to the `variables` section, but using variables can come in handy as you'll see in the next few examples.

```json
{
  "variables": {
    "apiKey": "4737ea8520bd454caabb7cb3d36e14bc1832c0d3f70a4189b82598670f11b1bd"
  },
  "apiKeys": [
    {
      "key": "#{apiKey}",
      "description": "My first API Key!"
    }
  ]
}
```

=== Using Environment Variables

It is reasonable to think you may not want to hard code a password or API key in the kickstart file which could get checked into version control. You can use environment variables which should make this a bit easier for you.

To use an environment variable prefix the name of the environment variable with `ENV.`.

Here is the same example as above, but instead of hard coding the API key, we are picking it up from an environment variable. Here we will resolve the value of the API key in the environment variable named `FUSIONAUTH_API_KEY`. This value will be set into the variable `apiKey` and then when the API key is constructed the value of the API key will be resolved to the `apiKey` variable value.

```json
{
  "variables": {
    "apiKey": "#{ENV.FUSIONAUTH_API_KEY}"
  },
  "apiKeys": [
    {
      "key": "#{apiKey}"
    }
  ]
}
```

=== Adding API Requests

Now comes the interesting part. Once you have defined at least one API key, you can define one to many API requests that will be executed in order using the primary API key. You may call any API you like, but you are limited to the `POST`, `PUT` and `PATCH` HTTP methods.

Here is an example of creating a FusionAuth admin user using the `requests` object array. This example is using the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/registrations[Registration API] to create the User and registration in a single request.

You'll notice we are using a special variable that we did not define in the `variables` object. This is one of two reserved variables provided for your convenience.

* `FUSIONAUTH_APPLICATION_ID` - The Id of the FusionAuth application
* `FUSIONAUTH_TENANT_ID` - The Id of the default Tenant which is where the FusionAuth application resides

```json
{
  "variables": {
    "apiKey": "#{ENV.FUSIONAUTH_API_KEY}",
    "adminPassword": "#{ENV.FUSIONAUTH_ADMIN_PASSWORD}"
  },
  "apiKeys": [
    {
      "key": "#{apiKey}"
    }
  ],
  "requests": [
    {
      "method": "POST",
      "url": "/api/user/registration",
      "body": {
        "user": {
          "email": "monica@piedpiper.com",
          "password": "#{adminPassword}",
          "data": {
            "Company": "PiedPiper"
          }
        },
        "registration": {
          "applicationId": "#{FUSIONAUTH_APPLICATION_ID}",
          "roles": [
            "admin"
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

==== Tenants

If you don't create a tenant using the Tenant API in your kickstart file then you're all set. If you do find yourself creating more than one tenant then you will need to specify the Tenant Id on the API requests.

There is a top level property in the request called `tenantId` and you simply set that value to indicate which Tenant you wish to use.

In this example, we'll create a new application and we'll do it in a second tenant that we create. Because I need to know the `tenantId` I am generating a new UUID using the `#{UUID()}` function call and assigning that value to `secondTenantId`. Now I can re-use this value to create the tenant, and to make the Create Application API request.

This kickstart will create a second tenant named `Aviato` which will contain a single application named `My Cool Application`.

```json
{
  "variables": {
    "apiKey": "#{ENV.FUSIONAUTH_API_KEY}",
    "adminPassword": "#{ENV.FUSIONAUTH_ADMIN_PASSWORD}",
    "secondTenantId": "#{UUID()}"
  },
  "apiKeys": [
    {
      "key": "#{apiKey}"
    }
  ],
  "requests": [
    {
      "method": "POST",
      "url": "/api/tenant/#{secondTenantId}",
      "body": {
        "tenant": {
          "name": "Aviato"
        }
      }
    },
    {
      "method": "POST",
      "url": "/api/application",
      "tenantId": "#{secondTenantId}",
      "body": {
        "application": {
          "name": "My Cool Application"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

==== Tenants API Keys

An API key may also be configured to be restricted to a single tenant, as implied above. To do this, add the `tenantId` to the API key configuration.

In this example we will modify the restricted API key example from above to further limit it for use with one tenant.

```json
{
  "variables": {
    "secondTenantId": "#{UUID()}"
  },
  "apiKeys": [
    {
      "key": "4737ea8520bd454caabb7cb3d36e14bc1832c0d3f70a4189b82598670f11b1bd"
    },
    {
      "key": "0ad00c5f140c43f8bc2a155dd0edf3b7d61f5dd4011843d8a28475a0d812c033",
      "description": "Restricted API key - only for Retrieve User in Aviato",
      "permissions": {
        "endpoints": {
          "/api/user": [
            "GET"
          ]
        }
      },
      "tenantId": "#{secondTenantId}"
    }
  ],
  "requests": [
    {
      "method": "POST",
      "url": "/api/tenant/#{secondTenantId}",
      "body": {
        "tenant": {
          "name": "Aviato"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

== Advanced Concepts

=== Modify the default Tenant Id

FusionAuth generates the Id for the default tenant when the database schema is first created. For development and production environments it may be helpful to have a known tenantId for consistency across environments.

You may modify the default Tenant Id in your kickstart file by setting a special variable: `defaultTenantId`. In this example we have set the default Tenant Id to `30663132-6464-6665-3032-326466613934`. This value must be a valid UUID.

The value resolved when using the `FUSIONAUTH_TENANT_ID` variable will reflect this change.

```json
{
  "variables": {
    "defaultTenantId": "30663132-6464-6665-3032-326466613934"
  }
}
```

=== Set your License Id

If you have a paid edition you will be provided with a License Id. If you would like to set this value during kickstart you will set the value in a top level field called `licenseId`.

In this example I have a license Id of `eb7244dc-5d8e-40cd-a005-70b116fbda31`.
```json
{
  "licenseId": "eb7244dc-5d8e-40cd-a005-70b116fbda31"
}
```


=== Include Text files

When making API requests to create an Email template or request which may have lengthy values, it may be helpful to separate these values into separate files. The directories shown here are just examples, and you can use your own convention.

To include a text file in your kickstart definition, use the `@{fileName}` syntax where the `fileName` is a relative path from your kickstart file. For this type of include, we handle all line returns and properly JSON escape them for use in a JSON request body.

For example, consider the following directory structure:

```
|- kickstart.json
|- emails/
|  |- setup-password.html
|  |- setup-password.txt
```


In this example we are creating an Email template and reading in the values for the text and html values from files in a sub-directory named emails. Reading files in like this allows you to format your emails nicely and Kickstart will handle the necessary JSON escaping to complete the API request.

```json
{
  "variables": {
    "apiKey": "#{ENV.FUSIONAUTH_API_KEY}"
  },
  "apiKeys": [
    {
      "key": "#{apiKey}"
    }
  ],
  "requests": [
    {
      "method": "POST",
      "url": "/api/email/template/0502df1e-4010-4b43-b571-d423fce978b2",
      "body": {
        "emailTemplate": {
          "defaultFromName": "No Reply",
          "defaultSubject": "Setup your password",
          "defaultHtmlTemplate": "@{emails/setup-password.html}",
          "defaultTextTemplate": "@{emails/setup-password.txt}",
          "fromEmail": "no-replay@piedpiper.com",
          "name": "Setup Password"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

Newlines are preserved in included text files, whereas they are not in the kickstart file. If you are, for example, including a lambda function definition, it may lead to better readability if you include the body from a text file.

=== Include JSON files

If you're making a lot of API requests, or simply want to manage each API request body separately it may be helpful to read in external JSON files. The directories shown here are just examples, and you can use your own convention.

To include a JSON file in your kickstart definition use the `&{fileName}` syntax where the `fileName` is a relative path from your kickstart file. If this type of include is used, we expect the file to be JSON and we don't do anything with line returns.

For example, consider the following directory structure:

```
|- kickstart.json
|- emails/
|  |- setup-password.html
|  |- setup-password.txt
|- json/
|  |- setup-password.json
```

Here are the contents of the `json/setup-password.json` file, you'll see that in this example we are still reading in the values for `defaultHtmlTemplate` and `defaultTextTemplate`.

```json
{
  "emailTemplate": {
    "defaultFromName": "No Reply",
    "defaultSubject": "Setup your password",
    "defaultHtmlTemplate": "@{emails/setup-password.html}",
    "defaultTextTemplate": "@{emails/setup-password.txt}",
    "fromEmail": "no-replay@piedpiper.com",
    "name": "Setup Password"
  }
}
```

We will replicate the previous example but the entire JSON body of the request will move to `setup-password.json`.

```json
{
  "variables": {
    "apiKey": "#{ENV.FUSIONAUTH_API_KEY}"
  },
  "apiKeys": [
    {
      "key": "#{apiKey}"
    }
  ],
  "requests": [
    {
      "method": "POST",
      "url": "/api/email/template/0502df1e-4010-4b43-b571-d423fce978b2",
      "body": "&{json/setup-password.json}"
    }
  ]
}
```

You may also include an entire request using this pattern, consider the following directory structure:

```
|- kickstart.json
|- emails/
|  |- setup-password.html
|  |- setup-password.txt
|- json/
|  |- setup-password.json
|- requests/
|  |- setup-password.json
```

Here are the contents of the `requests/setup-password.json` file.

```json
{
  "method": "POST",
  "url": "/api/email/template/0502df1e-4010-4b43-b571-d423fce978b2",
  "body": {
    "emailTemplate": {
      "defaultFromName": "No Reply",
      "defaultSubject": "Setup your password",
      "defaultHtmlTemplate": "@{emails/setup-password.html}",
      "defaultTextTemplate": "@{emails/setup-password.txt}",
      "fromEmail": "no-replay@piedpiper.com",
      "name": "Setup Password"
    }
  }
}
```

And the usage in the kickstart file:

```json
{
  "variables": {
    "apiKey": "#{ENV.FUSIONAUTH_API_KEY}"
  },
  "apiKeys": [
    {
      "key": "#{apiKey}"
    }
  ],
  "requests": [
    "&{requests/setup-password.json}"
  ]
}
```

=== Reference

The following environment variables  are built in:

* `FUSIONAUTH_APPLICATION_ID` - The Id of the FusionAuth application
* `FUSIONAUTH_TENANT_ID` - The Id of the default Tenant which is where the FusionAuth application resides
 
The following functions are built in:

* `UUID()` - Provides a random UUID

The following are special variables:

* `defaultTenantId` - The Id of the default Tenant which is where the FusionAuth application resides. Set this if you'd like to control the Id.

You may not add comments to kickstart files. 

The escape character sequence is `\\`.
