site/docs/v1/tech/tutorials/prometheus.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Prometheus Setup
description: Learn how to setup Prometheus to work with FusionAuth
---

== Prometheus Setup

[NOTE.since]
====
Available since `1.26.0`
====

Prometheus is a tool to monitor metrics and setup alerts in the case that some metric has responded negatively for an extended period. Setting this up with FusionAuth is easy.

=== Setup
The only requirement to hookup FusionAuth is to direct prometheus to the FusionAuth prometheus endpoints. We used the following configuration for a FusionAuth instance running locally on the docker host. (You can reach dockers host ip via `host.docker.internal` on mac and windows docker.)

[source,yaml]
.prometheus.yaml
----
include::docs/src/yaml/prometheus.yaml[]
----

We then started prometheus with
[source,bash]
----
docker run -v $(pwd)/prometheus.yaml:/etc/prometheus/prometheus.yml -p 9090:9090 prom/prometheus
----

image::tutorials/setting-up-prometheus/prometheus-graph.png[Prometheus Graph View,width=1200,role=shadowed]

Commit message:

added configuration section and details about basic auth

site/docs/v1/tech/tutorials/prometheus.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Prometheus Setup
description: Learn how to set up Prometheus to work with FusionAuth
---

== Prometheus Setup

[NOTE.since]
====
Available since `1.26.0`
====

Prometheus is a tool to monitor metrics and setup alerts in the case that some metric has responded negatively for an extended period. The following types of gauges are currently available.

* JVM Buffers - A set of gauges for the count, usage, and capacity of the JVM's direct and mapped buffer pools.
* JVM class loading - A set of gauges for JVM classloader usage.
* JVM garbage collection - A set of gauges for the counts and elapsed times of garbage collections.
* JVM memory - A set of gauges for JVM memory usage, including stats on heap vs.
* JVM threads - A set of gauges for the number of threads in their various states and deadlock detection.
* Other JVM attributes - A Gauge implementation which queries an MBeanServerConnection for an attribute of an object.

=== Setup
Setting this up with FusionAuth is easy. The only requirement to hookup FusionAuth is to direct Prometheus to the FusionAuth Prometheus endpoints. We used the following configuration for a FusionAuth instance running locally on the docker host. (You can reach dockers host ip via `host.docker.internal` on mac and windows docker.)

== Configuration
The Prometheus endpoint is configured with the YAML file. You can learn more about the Prometheus configuration link:https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#[here]. Prometheus does not provide functionality to authenticate using custom HTTP headers. As a workaround, we are using API key as password using basic auth authorization method.

In order to authenticate using basic auth please use string "apikey" as the username and a valid API key as the password. The API key must have `GET` permission for the `/api/prometheus/metrics` endpoint.

All other configuration is standard Prometheus scrape_config.

Please refer to the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#[Authentication] document for more details about API keys.


[source,yaml]
.prometheus.yaml
----
include::docs/src/yaml/prometheus.yaml[]
----


We then started Prometheus with
[source,bash]
----
docker run -v $(pwd)/prometheus.yaml:/etc/prometheus/prometheus.yml -p 9090:9090 prom/prometheus
----

image::tutorials/setting-up-prometheus/prometheus-graph.png[Prometheus Graph View,width=1200,role=shadowed]
