site/docs/v1/tech/tutorials/setup-wizard.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Setup Wizard & First Login
description: Learn how to log into FusionAuth for the first time and setup an API Key to start testing the APIs
---

== Setup Wizard

This tutorial guides you through completing the initial FusionAuth configuration necessary prior to making API calls and beginning your integration.

=== Access FusionAuth App

The first step is to access FusionAuth in your web browser. If you have installed FusionAuth on your own system, you will need to know the IP address or hostname of the system where it has been installed. For example, to access FusionAuth on localhost, you would use the following URL `\http://localhost:9011`.

Once you have a web browser open to FusionAuth you will be presented with a setup wizard that will walk you through getting FusionAuth configured and ready to begin calling the API and managing users. If you instead are being prompted by the FusionAuth Maintenance Mode, please complete that setup first and then return to this step. See the Maintenance Mode section in the link:../installation-guide/fusionauth-app[FusionAuth App Installation Guide].

Once the setup wizard is complete you will be logged into FusionAuth using the created Administrator account.

=== Complete the Setup Wizard

image::setup-wizard.png[Setup Wizard,width=1200,role=shadowed]

==== Administrator account
This will be the first account to be created in FusionAuth and this user will be assigned the `admin` role the FusionAuth application. Additional
users can be assigned the `admin` role at a later time.

==== FusionAuth license
To complete the setup wizard you must toggle the Accept button after reading the FusionAuth license agreement. You won't find any surprise strings attached here, just the normal lawyer speak for CYA.

==== Stay informed
Optionally stay informed by opting-in to receive FusionAuth technical announcements, tutorials and other technical focused emails. You may opt-out at any time in the future, or opt-in at a later date by visiting fusionauth.io and finding the "Subscribe for updates" form at the bottom of the page.

== Complete Setup

Once the Setup Wizard has logged you into FusionAuth you may begin using FusionAuth. On the dashboard you will see the remaining setup items.
This includes setting up an API key, creating an Application and completing the SMTP Email configuration.

image::complete-setup.png[Complete Setup,width=1200,role=shadowed]

=== Missing Application
FusionAuth can be configured with one to many Applications. A FusionAuth Application represents a secured resource, it should be thoughtfully
named but the name may be modified at a later time. See the link:../core-concepts/applications[Application overview] for additional details.

=== Missing API Key
In order to call the API at least one API key will need to be added. Additional API keys can be added at a later time by any user with the `admin` role. See link:../apis/authentication[API Authentication] for additional details.

=== Email Settings
This step is optional but it is recommended. Until FusionAuth has been configured with a valid SMTP configuration FusionAuth will be unable to send
email. This means features such as Forgot Password, Change Password, Verify Email and User Actions configured to send emails will not function.

See the link:../email-templates/configure-email[Configure Email] section for additional details.

////
video::lQluU43fIys[youtube,width=720px,height=405px]
////

Commit message:

Fixed relative links in docs and expert advice

site/docs/v1/tech/tutorials/setup-wizard.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Setup Wizard & First Login
description: Learn how to log into FusionAuth for the first time and setup an API Key to start testing the APIs
---

== Setup Wizard

This tutorial guides you through completing the initial FusionAuth configuration necessary prior to making API calls and beginning your integration.

=== Access FusionAuth App

The first step is to access FusionAuth in your web browser. If you have installed FusionAuth on your own system, you will need to know the IP address or hostname of the system where it has been installed. For example, to access FusionAuth on localhost, you would use the following URL `\http://localhost:9011`.

Once you have a web browser open to FusionAuth you will be presented with a setup wizard that will walk you through getting FusionAuth configured and ready to begin calling the API and managing users. If you instead are being prompted by the FusionAuth Maintenance Mode, please complete that setup first and then return to this step. See the Maintenance Mode section in the link:/docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/fusionauth-app[FusionAuth App Installation Guide].

Once the setup wizard is complete you will be logged into FusionAuth using the created Administrator account.

=== Complete the Setup Wizard

image::setup-wizard.png[Setup Wizard,width=1200,role=shadowed]

==== Administrator account
This will be the first account to be created in FusionAuth and this user will be assigned the `admin` role the FusionAuth application. Additional
users can be assigned the `admin` role at a later time.

==== FusionAuth license
To complete the setup wizard you must toggle the Accept button after reading the FusionAuth license agreement. You won't find any surprise strings attached here, just the normal lawyer speak for CYA.

==== Stay informed
Optionally stay informed by opting-in to receive FusionAuth technical announcements, tutorials and other technical focused emails. You may opt-out at any time in the future, or opt-in at a later date by visiting fusionauth.io and finding the "Subscribe for updates" form at the bottom of the page.

== Complete Setup

Once the Setup Wizard has logged you into FusionAuth you may begin using FusionAuth. On the dashboard you will see the remaining setup items.
This includes setting up an API key, creating an Application and completing the SMTP Email configuration.

image::complete-setup.png[Complete Setup,width=1200,role=shadowed]

=== Missing Application
FusionAuth can be configured with one to many Applications. A FusionAuth Application represents a secured resource, it should be thoughtfully
named but the name may be modified at a later time. See the link:/docs/v1/tech/core-concepts/applications[Application overview] for additional details.

=== Missing API Key
In order to call the API at least one API key will need to be added. Additional API keys can be added at a later time by any user with the `admin` role. See link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication[API Authentication] for additional details.

=== Email Settings
This step is optional but it is recommended. Until FusionAuth has been configured with a valid SMTP configuration FusionAuth will be unable to send
email. This means features such as Forgot Password, Change Password, Verify Email and User Actions configured to send emails will not function.

See the link:/docs/v1/tech/email-templates/configure-email[Configure Email] section for additional details.

////
video::lQluU43fIys[youtube,width=720px,height=405px]
////
