site/docs/v1/tech/apis/_consent-request-body.adoc, before:

==== Request Body

[.api]
[field]#consent.consentEmailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#::
The Id of the Email Template that is used to send confirmation to the end user. If this value is omitted an email will not be sent to the user.

[field]#consent.countryMinimumAgeForSelfConsent# [type]#[Map<Locale, Integer>]# [optional]#Optional#::
This property optionally overrides the value provided in [field]#defaultMinimumAgeForSelfConsent# if a more specific value is defined. This can be useful when the age of self consent varies by country.
+
&nbsp;
+
For example, consider the following definition:
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "de": 17
}
----
+
If a user has defined their preferred locale to be Germany (`de`), the age of self consent defined for Germany will be used instead of the value defined by [field]#defaultMinimumAgeForSelfConsent#.

[field]#consent.defaultMinimumAgeForSelfConsent# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required#::
The default age of self consent used when granting this consent to a user unless a more specific one is provided by the [field]#countryMinimumAgeForSelfConsent#.
+
A user that meets the minimum age of self consent may self-consent, this means the recipient may also be the giver.

[field]#consent.emailPlus.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#::
Set this value to `true` to enable the Email Plus workflow.
+
Email Plus provides and additional opportunity to notify the giver that consent was provided. For example, if [field]#consentEmailTemplateId# is provided then when the consent is granted an email will be sent to notify the giver that consent was granted to the user. When using Email Plus a follow up email will be sent to the giver at a randomly selected time within the configured minimum and maximum range of hours.

[field]#consent.emailPlus.emailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Email Template that is used to send the reminder notice to the consent giver. This value is required when [field]#emailPlus.enabled# is set to `true`.

[field]#consent.emailPlus.maximumTimeToSendEmailInHours# [type]#[Integer]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `48`#::
The maximum number of hours to wait until sending the reminder notice the consent giver.

[field]#consent.emailPlus.minimumTimeToSendEmailInHours# [type]#[Integer]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `24`#::
The minimum number of hours to wait until sending the reminder notice the consent giver.

[field]#consent.multipleValuesAllowed# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#::
Set this value to `true` if more than one value may be used when granting this consent to a User. When this value is `false` a maximum of one value may be assigned.
+
This value is not used when no [field]#values# have been defined for this consent.

[field]#consent.name# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The unique name of the consent.

[field]#consent.values# [type]#[Array<String>]# [optional]#Optional#::
One or more values that may be assigned for this consent.

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/consents/request.json[]
----

Commit message:

Document the data field for a consent. https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-issues/issues/970

site/docs/v1/tech/apis/_consent-request-body.adoc, after:

==== Request Body

[.api]
[field]#consent.consentEmailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#::
The Id of the Email Template that is used to send confirmation to the end user. If this value is omitted an email will not be sent to the user.

[field]#consent.countryMinimumAgeForSelfConsent# [type]#[Map<Locale, Integer>]# [optional]#Optional#::
This property optionally overrides the value provided in [field]#defaultMinimumAgeForSelfConsent# if a more specific value is defined. This can be useful when the age of self consent varies by country.
+
&nbsp;
+
For example, consider the following definition:
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "de": 17
}
----
+
If a user has defined their preferred locale to be Germany (`de`), the age of self consent defined for Germany will be used instead of the value defined by [field]#defaultMinimumAgeForSelfConsent#.

[field]#consent.data# [type]#[Object]# [optional]#Optional#::
An object that can hold any information about the Consent that should be persisted.

[field]#consent.defaultMinimumAgeForSelfConsent# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required#::
The default age of self consent used when granting this consent to a user unless a more specific one is provided by the [field]#countryMinimumAgeForSelfConsent#.
+
A user that meets the minimum age of self consent may self-consent, this means the recipient may also be the giver.

[field]#consent.emailPlus.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#::
Set this value to `true` to enable the Email Plus workflow.
+
Email Plus provides and additional opportunity to notify the giver that consent was provided. For example, if [field]#consentEmailTemplateId# is provided then when the consent is granted an email will be sent to notify the giver that consent was granted to the user. When using Email Plus a follow up email will be sent to the giver at a randomly selected time within the configured minimum and maximum range of hours.

[field]#consent.emailPlus.emailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Email Template that is used to send the reminder notice to the consent giver. This value is required when [field]#emailPlus.enabled# is set to `true`.

[field]#consent.emailPlus.maximumTimeToSendEmailInHours# [type]#[Integer]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `48`#::
The maximum number of hours to wait until sending the reminder notice the consent giver.

[field]#consent.emailPlus.minimumTimeToSendEmailInHours# [type]#[Integer]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `24`#::
The minimum number of hours to wait until sending the reminder notice the consent giver.

[field]#consent.multipleValuesAllowed# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#::
Set this value to `true` if more than one value may be used when granting this consent to a User. When this value is `false` a maximum of one value may be assigned.
+
This value is not used when no [field]#values# have been defined for this consent.

[field]#consent.name# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The unique name of the consent.

[field]#consent.values# [type]#[Array<String>]# [optional]#Optional#::
One or more values that may be assigned for this consent.

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/consents/request.json[]
----
