site/docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc, before:

[cols="1,9"]
.Response Codes
|===
|Code |Description

// Use custom success code and message, both should be defined.
ifdef::success_code[]
|{success_code}
|{success_message}
endif::[]

// Use default success code and message
ifndef::success_code[]
|200
|The request was successful. The response will contain a JSON body.
endif::[]

ifdef::not_registered[]
|202
|The request was successful. The response will contain a JSON body. The user is not authorized to the requested application, the returned access token will not contain claims for an application. This user is authenticated but not registered.
endif::[]

ifndef::no_errors[]
ifndef::errors_message[]
|400
|The request was invalid and/or malformed. The response will contain an link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/errors/[Errors] JSON Object with the specific errors.
endif::[]
ifdef::errors_message[]
|400
|{errors_message}
endif::[]
endif::[]

ifndef::no_authorization[]
ifdef::authorization_message[]
|401
|{authorization_message}
endif::[]

ifndef::authorization_message[]
|401
|You did not supply a valid Authorization header. The header was omitted or your API key was not valid. The response will be empty. See link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication/[Authentication].
endif::[]
endif::[]

ifndef::never_missing[]
ifdef::missing_message[]
|404
|{missing_message}
endif::[]

ifndef::missing_message[]
|404
|The object you requested doesn't exist. The response will be empty.
endif::[]
endif::[]

|500
|There was an internal error. A stack trace is provided and logged in the FusionAuth log files. The response will be empty.

ifndef::never_search_error[]
|503
|The search index is not available or encountered an exception so the request cannot be completed. The response will contain a JSON body.
endif::[]
|===

Commit message:

Added note about fusionauth license error code.

site/docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc, after:

[cols="1,9"]
.Response Codes
|===
|Code |Description

// Use custom success code and message, both should be defined.
ifdef::success_code[]
|{success_code}
|{success_message}
endif::[]

// Use default success code and message
ifndef::success_code[]
|200
|The request was successful. The response will contain a JSON body.
endif::[]

ifdef::not_registered[]
|202
|The request was successful. The response will contain a JSON body. The user is not authorized to the requested application, the returned access token will not contain claims for an application. This user is authenticated but not registered.
endif::[]

ifndef::no_errors[]
ifndef::errors_message[]
|400
|The request was invalid and/or malformed. The response will contain an link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/errors/[Errors] JSON Object with the specific errors. This status will also be returned if a paid FusionAuth license is required and is not present.
endif::[]
ifdef::errors_message[]
|400
|{errors_message}
endif::[]
endif::[]

ifndef::no_authorization[]
ifdef::authorization_message[]
|401
|{authorization_message}
endif::[]

ifndef::authorization_message[]
|401
|You did not supply a valid Authorization header. The header was omitted or your API key was not valid. The response will be empty. See link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication/[Authentication].
endif::[]
endif::[]

ifndef::never_missing[]
ifdef::missing_message[]
|404
|{missing_message}
endif::[]

ifndef::missing_message[]
|404
|The object you requested doesn't exist. The response will be empty.
endif::[]
endif::[]

|500
|There was an internal error. A stack trace is provided and logged in the FusionAuth log files. The response will be empty.

ifndef::never_search_error[]
|503
|The search index is not available or encountered an exception so the request cannot be completed. The response will contain a JSON body.
endif::[]
|===
