site/docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc, before:

[cols="1,9"]
.Response Codes
|===
|Code |Description

// Use custom success code and message, both should be defined.
ifdef::success_code[]
|{success_code}
|{success_message}
endif::[]

ifndef::success_code[]
|200
|The request was successful. The response will be empty.
endif::[]

ifdef::async_enabled[]
|202
|The request has been accepted but not completed. The response will be empty.
endif::[]

ifndef::no_errors[]
|400
|The request was invalid and/or malformed. The response will contain an link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/errors/[Errors] JSON Object with the specific errors.
endif::[]

|401
|You did not supply a valid Authorization header. The header was omitted or your API key was not valid. The response will be empty. See link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication/[Authentication].

ifndef::never_missing[]
|404
|The object you are trying to delete doesn't exist. The response will be empty.
endif::[]

|500
|There was an internal error. A stack trace is provided and logged in the FusionAuth log files. The response will be empty.

ifndef::never_search_error[]
|503
|The search index is not available or encountered an exception so the request cannot be completed. The response will contain a JSON body.
endif::[]

ifdef::webhook_event[]
|504
|One or more Webhook endpoints returned an invalid response or were unreachable. Based on the transaction configuration for this event your action cannot be completed. A stack trace is provided and logged in the FusionAuth log files.
endif::[]
|===

Commit message:

Added note about fusionauth license error code.

site/docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc, after:

[cols="1,9"]
.Response Codes
|===
|Code |Description

// Use custom success code and message, both should be defined.
ifdef::success_code[]
|{success_code}
|{success_message}
endif::[]

ifndef::success_code[]
|200
|The request was successful. The response will be empty.
endif::[]

ifdef::async_enabled[]
|202
|The request has been accepted but not completed. The response will be empty.
endif::[]

ifndef::no_errors[]
|400
|The request was invalid and/or malformed. The response will contain an link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/errors/[Errors] JSON Object with the specific errors. This status will also be returned if a paid FusionAuth license is required and is not present.
endif::[]

|401
|You did not supply a valid Authorization header. The header was omitted or your API key was not valid. The response will be empty. See link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication/[Authentication].

ifndef::never_missing[]
|404
|The object you are trying to delete doesn't exist. The response will be empty.
endif::[]

|500
|There was an internal error. A stack trace is provided and logged in the FusionAuth log files. The response will be empty.

ifndef::never_search_error[]
|503
|The search index is not available or encountered an exception so the request cannot be completed. The response will contain a JSON body.
endif::[]

ifdef::webhook_event[]
|504
|One or more Webhook endpoints returned an invalid response or were unreachable. Based on the transaction configuration for this event your action cannot be completed. A stack trace is provided and logged in the FusionAuth log files.
endif::[]
|===
