site/docs/v1/tech/apis/_user-registration-request-body.adoc, before:

==== Request Body

[.api]
[field]#generateAuthenticationToken# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#::
Determines if FusionAuth should generate an Authentication Token for this registration.

[field]#registration.applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Application that this registration is for.

[field]#registration.data# [type]#[Object]# [optional]#Optional#::
An object that can hold any information about the User for this registration that should be persisted.

[field]#registration.preferredLanguages# [type]#[Array<String>]# [optional]#Optional#::
An array of locale strings that give, in order, the User's preferred languages for this registration. These are important for email templates and other localizable text. See link:/docs/v1/tech/reference/data-types#locales[Locales].

ifeval::["{http_method}" == "POST"]
[field]#registration.id# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to secure random UUID#::
The Id of this registration. If not specified a secure random UUID will be generated.
endif::[]

[field]#registration.roles# [type]#[Array<String>]# [optional]#Optional#::
The list of roles that the User has for this Application.

[field]#registration.timezone# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#::
The User's preferred timezone for this Application registration. The string must be in an https://www.iana.org/time-zones[IANA] time zone format.

[field]#registration.username# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#::
The username of the User for this Application only.

ifeval::["{http_method}" == "POST"]
[field]#skipRegistrationVerification# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#::
Indicates to FusionAuth that it should skip registration verification even if it is enabled for the Application.
endif::[]

ifeval::["{http_method}" == "POST"]
[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/user-registrations/create-request.json[]
----
endif::[]

ifeval::["{http_method}" == "PUT"]
[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/user-registrations/update-request.json[]
----
endif::[]

Commit message:

Add missing authenticationToken field in the User Registration API.

site/docs/v1/tech/apis/_user-registration-request-body.adoc, after:

==== Request Body

[.api]
[field]#generateAuthenticationToken# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#::
Determines if FusionAuth should generate an Authentication Token for this registration.

[field]#registration.applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Application that this registration is for.

[field]#registration.authenticationToken# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#::
The authentication token that may be used in place of the User's password when authenticating against this application represented by this registration. This parameter is ignored if [field]#generateAuthenticationToken# is set to `true` and instead the value will be generated.

[field]#registration.data# [type]#[Object]# [optional]#Optional#::
An object that can hold any information about the User for this registration that should be persisted.

[field]#registration.preferredLanguages# [type]#[Array<String>]# [optional]#Optional#::
An array of locale strings that give, in order, the User's preferred languages for this registration. These are important for email templates and other localizable text. See link:/docs/v1/tech/reference/data-types#locales[Locales].

ifeval::["{http_method}" == "POST"]
[field]#registration.id# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to secure random UUID#::
The Id of this registration. If not specified a secure random UUID will be generated.
endif::[]

[field]#registration.roles# [type]#[Array<String>]# [optional]#Optional#::
The list of roles that the User has for this Application.

[field]#registration.timezone# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#::
The User's preferred timezone for this Application registration. The string must be in an https://www.iana.org/time-zones[IANA] time zone format.

[field]#registration.username# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#::
The username of the User for this Application only.

ifeval::["{http_method}" == "POST"]
[field]#skipRegistrationVerification# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#::
Indicates to FusionAuth that it should skip registration verification even if it is enabled for the Application.
endif::[]

ifeval::["{http_method}" == "POST"]
[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/user-registrations/create-request.json[]
----
endif::[]

ifeval::["{http_method}" == "PUT"]
[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/user-registrations/update-request.json[]
----
endif::[]
