site/docs/v1/tech/apis/_user-search-request-body-elasticsearch-examples.adoc, before:

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON searching by [field]#ids#
----
include::../../../src/json/users/search-ids-request.json[]
----

[source,json]
.Example JSON for the `query` parameter to search for users with unverified registrations to a specific application
----
include::../../../src/json/users/unverified-registrations-query.json[]
----

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON searching by [field]#query# for users with unverified registrations to a specific application
----
include::../../../src/json/users/search-query-request.json[]
----

[source,json]
.Example JSON for the `query` parameter to search for users with a specific role
----
include::../../../src/json/users/role-query.json[]
----

[source,json]
.Example JSON searching by `query` for users with with a specific role
----
include::../../../src/json/users/search-role-query-request.json[]
----

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON searching by [field]#queryString# for users with an email address matching a pattern
----
include::../../../src/json/users/search-queryString-email-request.json[]
----

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON searching by [field]#queryString# for users belonging to a specific group
----
include::../../../src/json/users/search-queryString-group-request.json[]
----

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON searching by `queryString` for users of a specific tenant. A global API key must be used, and you may not use the `X-FusionAuth-TenantId` header when the search parameters include `tenantId`
----
include::../../../src/json/users/search-queryString-tenant-request.json[]
----

Commit message:

Added more examples for search queries.
Per issue https://github.com/fusionauth/fusionauth-issues/issues/30 the user.data field is searchable but no docs explain how to do so.

site/docs/v1/tech/apis/_user-search-request-body-elasticsearch-examples.adoc, after:

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON searching by [field]#ids#
----
include::../../../src/json/users/search-ids-request.json[]
----

[source,json]
.Example JSON for the `query` parameter to search for users with unverified registrations to a specific application
----
include::../../../src/json/users/unverified-registrations-query.json[]
----

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON searching by [field]#query# for users with unverified registrations to a specific application
----
include::../../../src/json/users/search-query-request.json[]
----

[source,json]
.Example JSON for the `query` parameter to search for users with a specific role
----
include::../../../src/json/users/role-query.json[]
----

[source,json]
.Example JSON searching by `query` for users with with a specific role
----
include::../../../src/json/users/search-role-query-request.json[]
----

[source,json]
.Example JSON searching by `query` for users with a given email address
----
include::../../../src/json/users/search-email-address-query-request.json[]
----

[source,json]
.Example JSON searching by `query` for users with custom user data of dataMigrated equal to true
----
include::../../../src/json/users/search-user-data-query-request.json[]
----

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON searching by [field]#queryString# for users with an email address matching a pattern
----
include::../../../src/json/users/search-queryString-email-request.json[]
----

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON searching by [field]#queryString# for users belonging to a specific group
----
include::../../../src/json/users/search-queryString-group-request.json[]
----

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON searching by `queryString` for users of a specific tenant. A global API key must be used, and you may not use the `X-FusionAuth-TenantId` header when the search parameters include `tenantId`
----
include::../../../src/json/users/search-queryString-tenant-request.json[]
----
