site/docs/v1/tech/apis/applications.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Application APIs
description: The APIs for creating, retrieving, updating and deleting Applications
---

== Overview

This page contains the APIs that are used to manage Applications as well as the Roles of an Application. Here are the APIs:

* <<Create an Application>>
* <<Retrieve an Application>>
* <<Update an Application>>
* <<Delete an Application>>
* <<Reactivate an Application>>
* <<Create an Application Role>>
* <<Update an Application Role>>
* <<Delete an Application Role>>
* <<Retrieve OAuth Configuration>>

== Create an Application

This API is used to create an Application. Specifying an Id on the URI will instruct FusionAuth to use that Id when creating the Application. Otherwise, FusionAuth will generate an Id for the Application.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Create an Application with a generated Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/application#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Create an Application with the given Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/application/`\{applicationId\}`#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to a generated UUID#
|The Id to use for the new Application. If not specified a secure random UUID will be generated.
|===

:includeRoles:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_application-request-body.adoc[includeRoles=true]
:includeRoles!:

=== Response

The response for this API contains the information for the Application that was created.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_application-response-body.adoc[]


== Retrieve an Application

This API is used to retrieve one or all of the configured Applications. Specifying an Id on the URI will retrieve a single Application. Leaving off the Id will retrieve all of the Applications.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Retrieve all of the active Applications
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/application#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Retrieve all of the inactive Applications
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/application``?inactive=true``#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#inactive# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional#
|Set this parameter to `true` in order to retrieve only inactive Applications. Setting this parameter to `false` is equivalent omitting the `inactive` parameter.
|===

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Retrieve a single Application by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/application/`\{applicationId\}`#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#
|The Id of the Application to retrieve. This request will return the Application if it exists regardless if the Application is active or not.
|===

=== Response

The response for this API contains either a single Application or all of the Applications. When you call this API with an Id the response will contain just that Application. When you call this API without an Id the response will contain all of the Applications. Both response types are defined below along with an example JSON response.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_application-response-body.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_applications-response-body.adoc[]


== Update an Application

This API is used to update an existing Application. You must specify the Id of the Application you are updating on the URI. You must specify all of the properties of the Application when calling this API. This API doesn't merge the existing Application and your new data. It replaces the existing Application with your new data.

[NOTE]
====
You can't update an Application's roles via this API. This prevents you from accidentally removing all the roles of an Application. To create, update or remove a role from the Application, you need to call one of these APIs:

* <<Create an Application Role>>
* <<Update an Application Role>>
* <<Delete an Application Role>>
====

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Update an Application by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/application``\{applicationId\}``#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_application-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the new information for the Application that was updated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-put-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_application-response-body.adoc[]


== Delete an Application

This API is used to delete an Application. You must specify the Id of the Application on the URI. You can also specify whether or not the Application is soft or hard deleted. Soft deleted Applications are marked as inactive but not deleted from FusionAuth.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Soft delete an Application. This operation can be reversed by re-activating the Application.
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/application/`\{applicationId\}`#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Permanently delete an Application. This operation cannot be reversed.
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/application/`\{applicationId\}?hardDelete=true`#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The Id of the Application to delete.

|[field]#hardDelete# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional#
|Whether or not the Application is soft or hard deleted. A hard delete is a permanent operation.
|===

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc[]


== Reactivate an Application

This API is used to reactivate an inactive Application. You must specify the Id of the Application on the URI.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Reactivate the Application
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/application/`\{applicationId\}?reactivate=true`#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The Id of the Application to reactivate.
|===

=== Response

The response for this API contains the information for the Application that was reactivated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_application-response-body.adoc[]


== Create an Application Role

This API is used to create a role for an Application. Specifying an Id on the URI will instruct FusionAuth to use that Id when creating the role. Otherwise, FusionAuth will generate an Id for the role.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Create a Role with a generated Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/application/`\{applicationId\}/role`#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Create a Role with a given Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/application/`\{applicationId\}/role/\{roleId\}`#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The Id of the Application.

|[field]#roleId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to secure random UUID#
|The Id to use for the new role. If not specified a secure random UUID will be generated.
|===

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Body
|===
|[field]#role.description# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|A description for the role.

|[field]#role.name# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#
|The name of the Role.

|[field]#role.isDefault# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Whether or not the Role is a default role. A default role is automatically assigned to a user during registration if no roles are provided.

|[field]#role.isSuperRole# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Whether or not the Role is a considered to be a super user role. This is a marker to indicate that it supersedes all other roles. FusionAuth will attempt to enforce this contract when using the web UI, it is not enforced programmatically when using the API.
|===

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/applications/role-request.json[]
----

=== Response

The response for this API contains the information for the role that was created.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_role-response-body.adoc[]


== Update an Application Role

This API is used to update an existing Application role. You must specify the Application Id and the role Id on the URI to identify the role that is being updated.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Update an Application Role by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/application/``\{applicationId\}``/role/``\{roleId\}``#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The Id of the Application.

|[field]#roleId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The Id of the role that is being updated.
|===

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Body
|===
|[field]#role.description# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|A description for the role.

|[field]#role.name# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#
|The name of the Role.

|[field]#role.isDefault# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Whether or not the Role is a default role. A default role is automatically assigned to a user during registration if no roles are provided. More than one role can be marked as default.

|[field]#role.isSuperRole# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Whether or not the Role is a considered to be a super user role. This is a marker to indicate that it supersedes all other roles. FusionAuth will attempt to enforce this contract when using the web UI, it is not enforced programmatically when using the API.
|===

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/applications/role-request.json[]
----

=== Response

The response for this API contains the new information for the role that was updated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_role-response-body.adoc[]


== Delete an Application Role

This API is used to delete a role from an Application. You must specify the application Id and the role Id on the URI.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Delete an Application Role by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/application/``\{applicationId\}``/role/``\{roleId\}``#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The Id of the Application the role belongs.

|[field]#roleId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The Id of the role to delete.
|===

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc[]

== Retrieve OAuth Configuration

This API is used to retrieve the Application OAuth configuration. When an API key is provided on the request the OAuth client secret
will also be returned. When this API is called without authentication the client secret will not be returned in the response body.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#no-authentication-required[icon:unlock-alt[role=green]] link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Retrieve the OAuth Configuration for an Application
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/application/``\{applicationId\}``/oauth-configuration#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The Id of the Application to retrieve the OAuth configuration.
|===

=== Response

:no_authorization:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]
:no_authorization!:

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_application-oauth-configuration-response-body.adoc[]

Commit message:

High-level Users, Applications, Roles, Groups, Tenants https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-internal-issues/issues/21

site/docs/v1/tech/apis/applications.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Application APIs
description: The APIs for creating, retrieving, updating and deleting Applications
---

== Overview

This page contains the APIs that are used to manage Applications as well as the Roles of an Application. Here are the APIs:

* <<Create an Application>>
* <<Retrieve an Application>>
* <<Update an Application>>
* <<Delete an Application>>
* <<Reactivate an Application>>
* <<Create an Application Role>>
* <<Update an Application Role>>
* <<Delete an Application Role>>
* <<Retrieve OAuth Configuration>>

== Create an Application

This API is used to create an Application. Specifying an Id on the URI will instruct FusionAuth to use that Id when creating the Application. Otherwise, FusionAuth will generate an Id for the Application.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Create an Application with a generated Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/application#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Create an Application with the given Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/application/`\{applicationId\}`#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Headers
|===
|[field]#X-FusionAuth-TenantId# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The Header specifying the Id of the Tenant this request is scoped for.  This Header is not required when the [field]#Authorization# header is provided with a tenant-scoped API key.  Refer to the link:../users/tenants[Tenant overview] for more detail on providing a Tenant Id on the request.

|[field]#Authorization# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The Authorization header specifying a tenant-scoped API key as a Bearer token.  This Header is not required when the [field]#X-FusionAuth-TenantId# header is provided.  Refer to the link:../users/tenants[Tenant overview] for more detail on providing a Tenant Id on the request.
|===

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to a generated UUID#
|The Id to use for the new Application. If not specified a secure random UUID will be generated.
|===

:includeRoles:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_application-request-body.adoc[includeRoles=true]
:includeRoles!:

=== Response

The response for this API contains the information for the Application that was created.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_application-response-body.adoc[]


== Retrieve an Application

This API is used to retrieve one or all of the configured Applications. Specifying an Id on the URI will retrieve a single Application. Leaving off the Id will retrieve all of the Applications.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Retrieve all of the active Applications
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/application#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Retrieve all of the inactive Applications
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/application``?inactive=true``#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#inactive# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional#
|Set this parameter to `true` in order to retrieve only inactive Applications. Setting this parameter to `false` is equivalent omitting the `inactive` parameter.
|===

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Retrieve a single Application by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/application/`\{applicationId\}`#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#
|The Id of the Application to retrieve. This request will return the Application if it exists regardless if the Application is active or not.
|===

=== Response

The response for this API contains either a single Application or all of the Applications. When you call this API with an Id the response will contain just that Application. When you call this API without an Id the response will contain all of the Applications. Both response types are defined below along with an example JSON response.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_application-response-body.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_applications-response-body.adoc[]


== Update an Application

This API is used to update an existing Application. You must specify the Id of the Application you are updating on the URI. You must specify all of the properties of the Application when calling this API. This API doesn't merge the existing Application and your new data. It replaces the existing Application with your new data.

[NOTE]
====
You can't update an Application's roles via this API. This prevents you from accidentally removing all the roles of an Application. To create, update or remove a role from the Application, you need to call one of these APIs:

* <<Create an Application Role>>
* <<Update an Application Role>>
* <<Delete an Application Role>>
====

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Update an Application by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/application``\{applicationId\}``#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_application-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the new information for the Application that was updated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-put-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_application-response-body.adoc[]


== Delete an Application

This API is used to delete an Application. You must specify the Id of the Application on the URI. You can also specify whether or not the Application is soft or hard deleted. Soft deleted Applications are marked as inactive but not deleted from FusionAuth.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Soft delete an Application. This operation can be reversed by re-activating the Application.
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/application/`\{applicationId\}`#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Permanently delete an Application. This operation cannot be reversed.
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/application/`\{applicationId\}?hardDelete=true`#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The Id of the Application to delete.

|[field]#hardDelete# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional#
|Whether or not the Application is soft or hard deleted. A hard delete is a permanent operation.
|===

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc[]


== Reactivate an Application

This API is used to reactivate an inactive Application. You must specify the Id of the Application on the URI.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Reactivate the Application
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/application/`\{applicationId\}?reactivate=true`#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The Id of the Application to reactivate.
|===

=== Response

The response for this API contains the information for the Application that was reactivated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_application-response-body.adoc[]


== Create an Application Role

This API is used to create a role for an Application. Specifying an Id on the URI will instruct FusionAuth to use that Id when creating the role. Otherwise, FusionAuth will generate an Id for the role.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Create a Role with a generated Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/application/`\{applicationId\}/role`#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Create a Role with a given Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/application/`\{applicationId\}/role/\{roleId\}`#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The Id of the Application.

|[field]#roleId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to secure random UUID#
|The Id to use for the new role. If not specified a secure random UUID will be generated.
|===

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Body
|===
|[field]#role.description# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|A description for the role.

|[field]#role.name# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#
|The name of the Role.

|[field]#role.isDefault# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Whether or not the Role is a default role. A default role is automatically assigned to a user during registration if no roles are provided.

|[field]#role.isSuperRole# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Whether or not the Role is a considered to be a super user role. This is a marker to indicate that it supersedes all other roles. FusionAuth will attempt to enforce this contract when using the web UI, it is not enforced programmatically when using the API.
|===

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/applications/role-request.json[]
----

=== Response

The response for this API contains the information for the role that was created.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_role-response-body.adoc[]


== Update an Application Role

This API is used to update an existing Application role. You must specify the Application Id and the role Id on the URI to identify the role that is being updated.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Update an Application Role by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/application/``\{applicationId\}``/role/``\{roleId\}``#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The Id of the Application.

|[field]#roleId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The Id of the role that is being updated.
|===

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Body
|===
|[field]#role.description# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|A description for the role.

|[field]#role.name# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#
|The name of the Role.

|[field]#role.isDefault# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Whether or not the Role is a default role. A default role is automatically assigned to a user during registration if no roles are provided. More than one role can be marked as default.

|[field]#role.isSuperRole# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Whether or not the Role is a considered to be a super user role. This is a marker to indicate that it supersedes all other roles. FusionAuth will attempt to enforce this contract when using the web UI, it is not enforced programmatically when using the API.
|===

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/applications/role-request.json[]
----

=== Response

The response for this API contains the new information for the role that was updated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_role-response-body.adoc[]


== Delete an Application Role

This API is used to delete a role from an Application. You must specify the application Id and the role Id on the URI.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Delete an Application Role by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/application/``\{applicationId\}``/role/``\{roleId\}``#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The Id of the Application the role belongs.

|[field]#roleId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The Id of the role to delete.
|===

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc[]

== Retrieve OAuth Configuration

This API is used to retrieve the Application OAuth configuration. When an API key is provided on the request the OAuth client secret
will also be returned. When this API is called without authentication the client secret will not be returned in the response body.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#no-authentication-required[icon:unlock-alt[role=green]] link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Retrieve the OAuth Configuration for an Application
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/application/``\{applicationId\}``/oauth-configuration#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The Id of the Application to retrieve the OAuth configuration.
|===

=== Response

:no_authorization:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]
:no_authorization!:

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_application-oauth-configuration-response-body.adoc[]
