site/docs/v1/tech/apis/entities.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Entity APIs
description: APIs for creating, retrieving, updating and deleting entities, as well as searching and granting permissions to them
---

== Overview

This page contains the APIs for managing Entities as well as searching and granting permissions to them.

[NOTE.since]
====
This API has been available since 1.26.0
====

* <<Create an Entity>>
* <<Retrieve an Entity>>
* <<Update an Entity>>
* <<Delete an Entity>>
* <<Search for Entities>>
* <<Grant a User or Entity Permissions to an Entity>>
* <<Retrieve an Entity Grant>>
* <<Delete an Entity Grant>>

include::docs/v1/tech/shared/_premium-edition-blurb.adoc[]

== Create an Entity

This API is used to create an Entity. Specifying an Id on the URI will instruct FusionAuth to use that Id when creating the Entity. Otherwise, FusionAuth will generate an Id for the Entity.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Create an Entity without providing an Id. An Id will be automatically generated.
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/entity#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-create-operation.adoc[]

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Create an Entity with the provided Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/entity/``\{entityId\}``#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#entityId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to secure random UUID#::
The Id to use for the new Entity. If not specified a secure random UUID will be generated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entity-request-body.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-create-operation.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the information for the Entity that was created.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entity-response-body.adoc[]


== Retrieve an Entity

This API is used to retrieve one Entity. 

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Retrieve a single Entity by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/entity/``\{entityId\}``#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#entityId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Entity to retrieve.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains a single Entity. 

:no_errors:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]
:no_errors!:

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entity-response-body.adoc[]

== Update an Entity

// TODO push this throughout all patchable objects

:object_name: Entity
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_update-section-text.adoc[]
:object_name!:

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Update an Entity by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/entity/``\{entityId\}``#
--

:api_endpoint: pass:normal[/api/entity/``\{entityId\}``]
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_patch-support.adoc[]

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#entityId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Entity to update.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entity-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the new information for the Entity that was updated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-put-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entity-response-body.adoc[]


== Delete an Entity

This API is used to delete an Entity. You must specify the Id of the Entity on the URI.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Delete an Entity By Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/entity/``\{entityId\}``#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#entityId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Entity to delete.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc[]

== Search for Entities

This API is used to search for Entities. This API may be called using the `GET` or `POST` HTTP methods, examples of each are provided below. The `POST` method is provided to allow for a richer request object without worrying about exceeding the maximum length of a URL. Calling this API with either the `GET` or `POST` HTTP method will will provide the same search results given the same query parameters.

=== Request

Which search query parameters are available and how they behave depends on the search engine type. Read more about link:/docs/v1/tech/core-concepts/search/[the different types of search engines].

=== Database Search Engine

This is a good choice for link:/docs/v1/tech/core-concepts/search/[smaller installs, embedded scenarios, or other places where the additional capability of Elasticsearch is not required].

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Search for Entities by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/entity/search``?ids=\{uuid\}&ids=\{uuid\}``#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Search for Entities by a query string
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/entity/search``?queryString=\{queryString\}``#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Search for Entities by a query string and sort the response
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/entity/search``?queryString=\{queryString\}&sortFields[0].name=\{name\}&sortFields[0].order=\{order\}``#
--

==== Request Parameters

:query_string_request: 
:database_search_engine_type:
:parameter_prefix: 
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entity-search-request-parameters.adoc[]
:query_string_request!:
:database_search_engine_type!: 
:parameter_prefix!: 

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Search for Entities using a JSON request body. This allows for larger requests than are possible using request parameters.
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/entity/search#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

==== Request Body

:query_string_request: nottrue
:database_search_engine_type:
:parameter_prefix: search.
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entity-search-request-parameters.adoc[]
:query_string_request!:
:database_search_engine_type!: 
:parameter_prefix!: 

===== Request Body Examples

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entity-search-request-body-database-examples.adoc[]

=== Elasticsearch Search Engine

The Elasticsearch engine has link:/docs/v1/tech/core-concepts/search/[advanced querying capabilities and better performance].

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Search for Entities by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/entity/search``?ids=\{uuid\}&ids=\{uuid\}``#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Search for Entities by a query string
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/entity/search``?queryString=\{queryString\}``#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Search for Entities by a query string and sort the response
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/entity/search``?queryString=\{queryString\}&sortFields[0].name=\{name\}&sortFields[0].order=\{order\}``#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Search for Entities by a raw JSON query
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/entity/search``?query=\{query\}``#
--

==== Request Parameters

:query_string_request: 
:elasticsearch_search_engine_type:
:parameter_prefix: 
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entity-search-request-parameters.adoc[]
:query_string_request!:
:elasticsearch_search_engine_type!: 
:parameter_prefix!: 

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Search for Entities using a JSON request body. This allows for larger requests than are possible using request parameters.
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/entity/search#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

==== Request Body

:query_string_request: nottrue
:elasticsearch_search_engine_type:
:parameter_prefix: search.
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entity-search-request-parameters.adoc[]
:query_string_request!:
:elasticsearch_search_engine_type!: 
:parameter_prefix!: 

===== Request Body Examples

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entity-search-request-body-elasticsearch-examples.adoc[]

=== Response

The response contains the Entity objects that were found as part of the lookup or search. Both the database and Elasticsearch search engines return the response in the same format.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]

:search_result:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entities-response-body.adoc[]
:search_result!:


== Flush the Search Engine

This API is used to issue a flush request to the FusionAuth Search. This will cause any cached data to be written to disk. In practice it is unlikely
 you'll find a need for this API in production unless you are performing search requests immediately following an operation that modifies the index and
  expecting to see the results immediately.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Flushes the Search Engine
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/entity/search#
--

=== Response

The response does not contain a body. It only contains one of the status codes below.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]


== Grant a User or Entity Permissions to an Entity

This API is used to grant permissions to an Entity for a User or another Entity.

This is an upsert operation. If the grant to this Entity for the specified User or recipient Entity exists, it will be updated. Otherwise it will be created.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Create an Entity Entity Grant
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/entity/`\{entityId\}`/grant#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#entityId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Entity to which access is granted.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Update an Entity Grant
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/entity/`\{entityId\}`/grant#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#entityId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Entity to which access is granted.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

==== Request Body

[.api]

[field]#entityGrant.data# [type]#[Object]#::
An object that can hold any information about the Entity Grant that should be persisted. Please review the link:/docs/v1/tech/reference/limitations#data-field-limitations[limits on data field types] as you plan for and build your custom data schema.

[field]#entityGrant.permissions# [type]#[Array<String>]# [optional]#Optional#::
The set of permissions of this Entity Grant.

[field]#entityGrant.recipientEntityId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#::
The Entity Id for which access is granted.
+
If [field]#recipientEntityId# is not provided, then the [field]#userId# will be required. 

[field]#entityGrant.userId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#::
The User Id for which access is granted.
+
If [field]#userId# is not provided, then the [field]#recipientEntityId# will be required. 

[source,json]
.Example User Grant Request JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/entities/user-grant-request.json[]
----

[source,json]
.Example Entity Grant Request JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/entities/recipient-entity-grant-request.json[]
----

=== Response

The response for this API contains the information for the created grant.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entity-grant-response-body.adoc[]

== Retrieve an Entity Grant

This API is used to retrieve one or all of the Entity Grants. Specifying only an entityId on the URI will retrieve a single Entity Grant. Adding a parameter of userId or recipientEntityId will retrieve all Entity Grants to the User or Entity, respectively, for this Entity. 

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Retrieve Grants To This Entity
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/entity/``\{entityId\}``/grant#
--

==== Request Parameters

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Retrieve Entity Grants For a User
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/entity/``\{entityId\}``/grant``?userId=\{userId\}``#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#entityId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Entity to which access is granted.

[field]#userId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the User which has been granted access.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Retrieve Entity Grants For Another Entity
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/entity/``\{entityId\}``/grant``?recipientEntityId=\{recipientEntityId\}``#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#entityId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Entity to which access is granted.

[field]#recipientEntityId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Entity which has been granted access.


include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

=== Response

This API is used to retrieve one or all of the Entity Grants. Specifying only an entityId on the URI will retrieve a single Entity Grant. Adding a parameter of userId or recipientEntityId will retrieve all Entity Grants to the User or Entity, respectively.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entity-grant-response-body.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entity-grants-response-body.adoc[]

== Delete an Entity Grant

This API is used to delete an Entity Grant from an Entity. 

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Delete Entity Grants for a User
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/entity/``\{entityId\}``/grant``?userId=\{userId\}``#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#entityId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Entity which is the target of the Entity Grant.

[field]#userId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the User who received the Entity Grant.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Delete an Entity Grant for a Recipient Entity
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/entity/``\{entityId\}``/grant``?recipientEntityId=\{recipientEntityId\}``#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#entityId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Entity which is the target of the Entity Grant.

[field]#recipientEntityId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Entity which received the Entity Grant.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc[]

Commit message:

Added link to core concepts.

site/docs/v1/tech/apis/entities.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Entity APIs
description: APIs for creating, retrieving, updating and deleting entities, as well as searching and granting permissions to them
---

== Overview

This page contains the APIs for managing Entities as well as searching and granting permissions to them. link:/docs/v1/tech/core-concepts/entity-management/[Entity core concepts] may also be helpful.

[NOTE.since]
====
This API has been available since 1.26.0
====

* <<Create an Entity>>
* <<Retrieve an Entity>>
* <<Update an Entity>>
* <<Delete an Entity>>
* <<Search for Entities>>
* <<Grant a User or Entity Permissions to an Entity>>
* <<Retrieve an Entity Grant>>
* <<Delete an Entity Grant>>

include::docs/v1/tech/shared/_premium-edition-blurb.adoc[]

== Create an Entity

This API is used to create an Entity. Specifying an Id on the URI will instruct FusionAuth to use that Id when creating the Entity. Otherwise, FusionAuth will generate an Id for the Entity.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Create an Entity without providing an Id. An Id will be automatically generated.
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/entity#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-create-operation.adoc[]

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Create an Entity with the provided Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/entity/``\{entityId\}``#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#entityId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to secure random UUID#::
The Id to use for the new Entity. If not specified a secure random UUID will be generated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entity-request-body.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-create-operation.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the information for the Entity that was created.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entity-response-body.adoc[]


== Retrieve an Entity

This API is used to retrieve one Entity. 

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Retrieve a single Entity by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/entity/``\{entityId\}``#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#entityId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Entity to retrieve.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains a single Entity. 

:no_errors:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]
:no_errors!:

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entity-response-body.adoc[]

== Update an Entity

// TODO push this throughout all patchable objects

:object_name: Entity
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_update-section-text.adoc[]
:object_name!:

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Update an Entity by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/entity/``\{entityId\}``#
--

:api_endpoint: pass:normal[/api/entity/``\{entityId\}``]
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_patch-support.adoc[]

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#entityId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Entity to update.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entity-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the new information for the Entity that was updated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-put-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entity-response-body.adoc[]


== Delete an Entity

This API is used to delete an Entity. You must specify the Id of the Entity on the URI.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Delete an Entity By Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/entity/``\{entityId\}``#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#entityId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Entity to delete.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc[]

== Search for Entities

This API is used to search for Entities. This API may be called using the `GET` or `POST` HTTP methods, examples of each are provided below. The `POST` method is provided to allow for a richer request object without worrying about exceeding the maximum length of a URL. Calling this API with either the `GET` or `POST` HTTP method will will provide the same search results given the same query parameters.

=== Request

Which search query parameters are available and how they behave depends on the search engine type. Read more about link:/docs/v1/tech/core-concepts/search/[the different types of search engines].

=== Database Search Engine

This is a good choice for link:/docs/v1/tech/core-concepts/search/[smaller installs, embedded scenarios, or other places where the additional capability of Elasticsearch is not required].

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Search for Entities by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/entity/search``?ids=\{uuid\}&ids=\{uuid\}``#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Search for Entities by a query string
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/entity/search``?queryString=\{queryString\}``#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Search for Entities by a query string and sort the response
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/entity/search``?queryString=\{queryString\}&sortFields[0].name=\{name\}&sortFields[0].order=\{order\}``#
--

==== Request Parameters

:query_string_request: 
:database_search_engine_type:
:parameter_prefix: 
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entity-search-request-parameters.adoc[]
:query_string_request!:
:database_search_engine_type!: 
:parameter_prefix!: 

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Search for Entities using a JSON request body. This allows for larger requests than are possible using request parameters.
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/entity/search#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

==== Request Body

:query_string_request: nottrue
:database_search_engine_type:
:parameter_prefix: search.
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entity-search-request-parameters.adoc[]
:query_string_request!:
:database_search_engine_type!: 
:parameter_prefix!: 

===== Request Body Examples

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entity-search-request-body-database-examples.adoc[]

=== Elasticsearch Search Engine

The Elasticsearch engine has link:/docs/v1/tech/core-concepts/search/[advanced querying capabilities and better performance].

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Search for Entities by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/entity/search``?ids=\{uuid\}&ids=\{uuid\}``#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Search for Entities by a query string
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/entity/search``?queryString=\{queryString\}``#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Search for Entities by a query string and sort the response
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/entity/search``?queryString=\{queryString\}&sortFields[0].name=\{name\}&sortFields[0].order=\{order\}``#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Search for Entities by a raw JSON query
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/entity/search``?query=\{query\}``#
--

==== Request Parameters

:query_string_request: 
:elasticsearch_search_engine_type:
:parameter_prefix: 
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entity-search-request-parameters.adoc[]
:query_string_request!:
:elasticsearch_search_engine_type!: 
:parameter_prefix!: 

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Search for Entities using a JSON request body. This allows for larger requests than are possible using request parameters.
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/entity/search#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

==== Request Body

:query_string_request: nottrue
:elasticsearch_search_engine_type:
:parameter_prefix: search.
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entity-search-request-parameters.adoc[]
:query_string_request!:
:elasticsearch_search_engine_type!: 
:parameter_prefix!: 

===== Request Body Examples

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entity-search-request-body-elasticsearch-examples.adoc[]

=== Response

The response contains the Entity objects that were found as part of the lookup or search. Both the database and Elasticsearch search engines return the response in the same format.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]

:search_result:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entities-response-body.adoc[]
:search_result!:


== Flush the Search Engine

This API is used to issue a flush request to the FusionAuth Search. This will cause any cached data to be written to disk. In practice it is unlikely
 you'll find a need for this API in production unless you are performing search requests immediately following an operation that modifies the index and
  expecting to see the results immediately.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Flushes the Search Engine
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/entity/search#
--

=== Response

The response does not contain a body. It only contains one of the status codes below.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]


== Grant a User or Entity Permissions to an Entity

This API is used to grant permissions to an Entity for a User or another Entity.

This is an upsert operation. If the grant to this Entity for the specified User or recipient Entity exists, it will be updated. Otherwise it will be created.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Create an Entity Entity Grant
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/entity/`\{entityId\}`/grant#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#entityId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Entity to which access is granted.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Update an Entity Grant
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/entity/`\{entityId\}`/grant#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#entityId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Entity to which access is granted.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

==== Request Body

[.api]

[field]#entityGrant.data# [type]#[Object]#::
An object that can hold any information about the Entity Grant that should be persisted. Please review the link:/docs/v1/tech/reference/limitations#data-field-limitations[limits on data field types] as you plan for and build your custom data schema.

[field]#entityGrant.permissions# [type]#[Array<String>]# [optional]#Optional#::
The set of permissions of this Entity Grant.

[field]#entityGrant.recipientEntityId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#::
The Entity Id for which access is granted.
+
If [field]#recipientEntityId# is not provided, then the [field]#userId# will be required. 

[field]#entityGrant.userId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#::
The User Id for which access is granted.
+
If [field]#userId# is not provided, then the [field]#recipientEntityId# will be required. 

[source,json]
.Example User Grant Request JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/entities/user-grant-request.json[]
----

[source,json]
.Example Entity Grant Request JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/entities/recipient-entity-grant-request.json[]
----

=== Response

The response for this API contains the information for the created grant.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entity-grant-response-body.adoc[]

== Retrieve an Entity Grant

This API is used to retrieve one or all of the Entity Grants. Specifying only an entityId on the URI will retrieve a single Entity Grant. Adding a parameter of userId or recipientEntityId will retrieve all Entity Grants to the User or Entity, respectively, for this Entity. 

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Retrieve Grants To This Entity
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/entity/``\{entityId\}``/grant#
--

==== Request Parameters

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Retrieve Entity Grants For a User
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/entity/``\{entityId\}``/grant``?userId=\{userId\}``#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#entityId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Entity to which access is granted.

[field]#userId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the User which has been granted access.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Retrieve Entity Grants For Another Entity
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/entity/``\{entityId\}``/grant``?recipientEntityId=\{recipientEntityId\}``#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#entityId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Entity to which access is granted.

[field]#recipientEntityId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Entity which has been granted access.


include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

=== Response

This API is used to retrieve one or all of the Entity Grants. Specifying only an entityId on the URI will retrieve a single Entity Grant. Adding a parameter of userId or recipientEntityId will retrieve all Entity Grants to the User or Entity, respectively.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entity-grant-response-body.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_entity-grants-response-body.adoc[]

== Delete an Entity Grant

This API is used to delete an Entity Grant from an Entity. 

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Delete Entity Grants for a User
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/entity/``\{entityId\}``/grant``?userId=\{userId\}``#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#entityId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Entity which is the target of the Entity Grant.

[field]#userId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the User who received the Entity Grant.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Delete an Entity Grant for a Recipient Entity
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/entity/``\{entityId\}``/grant``?recipientEntityId=\{recipientEntityId\}``#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#entityId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Entity which is the target of the Entity Grant.

[field]#recipientEntityId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Entity which received the Entity Grant.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc[]
