site/docs/v1/tech/apis/forms.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Form APIs
description: APIs for creating, retrieving, updating and deleting forms
---

== Overview

The following APIs are provided to manage Forms.

* <<Create a Form>>
* <<Retrieve a Form>>
* <<Update a Form>>
* <<Delete a Form>>

== Create a Form

This API is used to create a new Form.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=fas]] Create a Form with a randomly generated Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/form#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=fas]] Create a Form with the provided unique Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/form/`\{formId\}`#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#formId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to secure random UUID#::
The Id to use for the new Form. If not specified a secure random UUID will be generated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_form-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the Form that was created.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

:response_body_title: Response Body for a single Form
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_form-response-body.adoc[]

== Retrieve a Form

This API is used to retrieve a single Form by unique Id or all of the configured Forms.

=== Request


[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=fas]] Retrieve all of the Forms
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/form#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=fas]] Retrieve a Form by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/form/`\{formId\}`#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#formId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The unique Id of the Form to retrieve.

=== Response

The response for this API contains either a single Form or all of the Forms. When you call this API with an Id, the response will contain a single Form. When you call this API without an Id, the response will contain all of the Forms. Both response types are defined below along with an example JSON response.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_form-response-body.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_forms-response-body.adoc[]

== Update a Form

This API is used to update an existing Form.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=fas]] Update the Form with the given Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/form/`\{formId\}`#
--

:api_endpoint: pass:normal[/api/form/`\{formId\}`]
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_patch-support.adoc[]

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#formId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Form to update.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_form-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the Form that was updated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-put-response-codes.adoc[]

:response_body_title: Response Body
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_form-response-body.adoc[]


== Delete a Form

This API is used to permanently delete a Form.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=fas]] Delete a Form by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/form/`\{formId\}`#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#formId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The unique Id of the Form to delete.

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc[]

Commit message:

Updated aside nav bar to include Forms and Form Fields.
https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-internal-issues/issues/117

site/docs/v1/tech/apis/forms.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Form APIs
description: APIs for creating, retrieving, updating and deleting forms
---

== Overview
A FusionAuth Form is a customizable object that contains one-to-many ordered steps. Each step is comprised of one or more link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/form-fields[Form Field].

The following APIs are provided to manage Forms.

* <<Create a Form>>
* <<Retrieve a Form>>
* <<Update a Form>>
* <<Delete a Form>>

== Create a Form

This API is used to create a new Form.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=fas]] Create a Form with a randomly generated Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/form#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=fas]] Create a Form with the provided unique Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/form/`\{formId\}`#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#formId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to secure random UUID#::
The Id to use for the new Form. If not specified a secure random UUID will be generated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_form-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the Form that was created.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

:response_body_title: Response Body for a single Form
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_form-response-body.adoc[]

== Retrieve a Form

This API is used to retrieve a single Form by unique Id or all of the configured Forms.

=== Request


[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=fas]] Retrieve all of the Forms
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/form#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=fas]] Retrieve a Form by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/form/`\{formId\}`#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#formId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The unique Id of the Form to retrieve.

=== Response

The response for this API contains either a single Form or all of the Forms. When you call this API with an Id, the response will contain a single Form. When you call this API without an Id, the response will contain all of the Forms. Both response types are defined below along with an example JSON response.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_form-response-body.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_forms-response-body.adoc[]

== Update a Form

This API is used to update an existing Form.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=fas]] Update the Form with the given Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/form/`\{formId\}`#
--

:api_endpoint: pass:normal[/api/form/`\{formId\}`]
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_patch-support.adoc[]

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#formId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Form to update.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_form-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the Form that was updated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-put-response-codes.adoc[]

:response_body_title: Response Body
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_form-response-body.adoc[]


== Delete a Form

This API is used to permanently delete a Form.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=fas]] Delete a Form by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/form/`\{formId\}`#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#formId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The unique Id of the Form to delete.

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc[]
