site/docs/v1/tech/apis/form-fields.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Form Field APIs
description: APIs for creating, retrieving, updating and deleting form fields
---

== Overview

The following APIs are provided to manage Forms Fields.

* <<Create a Form Field>>
* <<Retrieve a Form Field>>
* <<Update a Form Field>>
* <<Delete a Form Field>>

== Create a Form Field

This API is used to create a new Form Field.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=fas]] Create a Form Field with a randomly generated Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/form/field#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=fas]] Create a Form Field with the provided unique Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/form/field/`\{fieldId\}`#
--


==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#fieldId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to secure random UUID#::
The Id to use for the new Form Field. If not specified a secure random UUID will be generated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_form-field-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the Form Field that was created.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

:response_body_title: Response Body for a single Form Field
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_form-field-response-body.adoc[]

== Retrieve a Form Field

This API is used to retrieve a single Form Field by unique Id or all of the configured Form Fields.

=== Request


[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=fas]] Retrieve all of the Form Fields
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/form/field#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=fas]] Retrieve a Form Field by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/form/field/`\{fieldId\}`#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#fieldId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The unique Id of the Form Field to retrieve.

=== Response

The response for this API contains either a single Form Field or all of the Form Fields. When you call this API with an Id, the response will contain a single Form Field. When you call this API without an Id, the response will contain all of the Form Fields. Both response types are defined below along with an example JSON response.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_form-field-response-body.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_form-fields-response-body.adoc[]

== Update a Form Field

This API is used to update an existing Form Field.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=fas]] Update the Form Field with the given Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/form/field/`\{fieldId\}`#
--

:api_endpoint: pass:normal[/api/form/`\{formId\}`]
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_patch-support.adoc[]

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#fieldId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Form Field to update.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_form-field-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the Form Field that was updated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-put-response-codes.adoc[]

:response_body_title: Response Body
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_form-field-response-body.adoc[]


== Delete a Form Field

This API is used to permanently delete a Form Field.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=fas]] Delete a Form Field by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/form/field/`\{fieldId\}`#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#fieldId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The unique Id of the Form Field to delete.

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc[]

Commit message:

Updated aside nav bar to include Forms and Form Fields.
https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-internal-issues/issues/117

site/docs/v1/tech/apis/form-fields.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Form Field APIs
description: APIs for creating, retrieving, updating and deleting form fields
---

== Overview

A FusionAuth Form Field is an object that can be customized to receive input within a FusionAuth link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/forms[Form].

The following APIs are provided to manage Forms Fields.

* <<Create a Form Field>>
* <<Retrieve a Form Field>>
* <<Update a Form Field>>
* <<Delete a Form Field>>

== Create a Form Field

This API is used to create a new Form Field.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=fas]] Create a Form Field with a randomly generated Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/form/field#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=fas]] Create a Form Field with the provided unique Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/form/field/`\{fieldId\}`#
--


==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#fieldId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to secure random UUID#::
The Id to use for the new Form Field. If not specified a secure random UUID will be generated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_form-field-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the Form Field that was created.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

:response_body_title: Response Body for a single Form Field
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_form-field-response-body.adoc[]

== Retrieve a Form Field

This API is used to retrieve a single Form Field by unique Id or all of the configured Form Fields.

=== Request


[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=fas]] Retrieve all of the Form Fields
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/form/field#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=fas]] Retrieve a Form Field by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/form/field/`\{fieldId\}`#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#fieldId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The unique Id of the Form Field to retrieve.

=== Response

The response for this API contains either a single Form Field or all of the Form Fields. When you call this API with an Id, the response will contain a single Form Field. When you call this API without an Id, the response will contain all of the Form Fields. Both response types are defined below along with an example JSON response.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_form-field-response-body.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_form-fields-response-body.adoc[]

== Update a Form Field

This API is used to update an existing Form Field.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=fas]] Update the Form Field with the given Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/form/field/`\{fieldId\}`#
--

:api_endpoint: pass:normal[/api/form/`\{formId\}`]
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_patch-support.adoc[]

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#fieldId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Form Field to update.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_form-field-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the Form Field that was updated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-put-response-codes.adoc[]

:response_body_title: Response Body
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_form-field-response-body.adoc[]


== Delete a Form Field

This API is used to permanently delete a Form Field.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=fas]] Delete a Form Field by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/form/field/`\{fieldId\}`#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#fieldId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The unique Id of the Form Field to delete.

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc[]
