site/docs/v1/tech/apis/groups.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Group APIs
description: APIs for creating, retrieving, updating and deleting groups
---

== Overview

A FusionAuth Group is a named object that optionally contains one to many Application Roles.

When a Group does not contain any Application Roles it can still be utilized to logically associate users. Assigning Application Roles to a group allow it to be used to dynamically manage Role assignment to registered Users. In this second scenario as long as a User is registered to an Application the Group membership will allow them to inherit the corresponding Roles from the Group.

The following APIs are provided to manage Groups and Group Membership.

* <<Create a Group>>
* <<Retrieve a Group>>
* <<Update a Group>>
* <<Delete a Group>>
* <<Add Users to a Group>>
* <<Remove Users from a Group>>


== Create a Group

This API is used to create a new Group.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Create a Group with a randomly generated Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/group#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Create a Group with the provided unique Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/group/`\{groupId\}`#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#groupId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to secure random UUID#
|The Id to use for the new Group. If not specified a secure random UUID will be generated.
|===

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_group-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the Group that was created.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

:response_body_title: Response Body for a single Group
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_group-response-body.adoc[]

== Retrieve a Group

This API is used to retrieve a single Group by unique Id or all of the configured Groups.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Retrieve all of the Groups
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/group#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Retrieve a Group by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/group/`\{groupId\}`#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#groupId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The unique Id of the Group to retrieve.
|===

=== Response

The response for this API contains either a single Group or all of the Groups. When you call this API with an Id the response will contain a single Group. When you call this API without an Id the response will contain all of the Groups. Both response types are defined below along with an example JSON response.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_group-response-body.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_groups-response-body.adoc[]

== Update a Group

This API is used to update an existing Group. You must specify the Id of the Group you are updating on the URI. You must specify all of the properties of the Group when calling this API. This API does not merge the existing Group and your new data. It replaces the existing Group with your new data.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Update the Group with the given Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/group/`\{groupId\}`#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#groupId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The Id of the Group to update.
|===

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_group-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the Group that was updated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-put-response-codes.adoc[]

:response_body_title: Response Body
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_group-response-body.adoc[]


== Delete a Group

This API is used to permanently delete a Group. Deleting a Group that has Application Roles will effectively modify User Registrations by removing these Roles from Group members.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Delete a Group by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/group/`\{groupId\}`#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#groupId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The unique Id of the Group to delete.
|===

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc[]

== Add Users to a Group

This API is used to add Users to a Group. A User that is added to a Group is called a member, a user can belong to one to many Groups.

Adding a User to a Group can be used to logically group users, Group members can be returned by the Search API by searching by the Group Id. Application Roles may also be managed by a Group membership. When a User becomes a member of a Group they will inherit the Application Roles assigned to the Group for their registered Applications. If a User is not registered for an Application the Application Roles for that Application will not be applied to the User.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Add Users to Group
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/group/member#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_member-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_member-response-body.adoc[]


== Remove Users from a Group

This API is used to remove Users from a Group. Removing a User from a Group removes their Group membership. Removing a User from a Group effectively modifies their assigned Roles if Application Roles are being managed through the Group membership.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Remove a single User from a Group by Member Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/group/member/`\{memberId\}`#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#memberId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The unique Id of the Group Member to delete.
|===

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Remove a single User from a Group by User Id and Group Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/group/member``?groupId={groupId}&userId={userId}``#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#groupId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The unique Id of the Group to remove the User from.

|[field]#userId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The unique Id of the User to remove from the Group.
|===

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Remove all Users from a Group
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/group/member``?groupId={groupId}``#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#groupId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The unique Id of the Group.
|===

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Remove Users from a Group by Member Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/group/member#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_group-delete-members-by-id-request-body.adoc[]

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Remove specified Users from a Group by Group Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/group/member#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_group-delete-members-request-body.adoc[]


=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc[]

Commit message:

High-level Users, Applications, Roles, Groups, Tenants https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-internal-issues/issues/21

site/docs/v1/tech/apis/groups.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Group APIs
description: APIs for creating, retrieving, updating and deleting groups
---

== Overview

A FusionAuth Group is a named object that optionally contains one to many Application Roles.

When a Group does not contain any Application Roles it can still be utilized to logically associate users. Assigning Application Roles to a group allow it to be used to dynamically manage Role assignment to registered Users. In this second scenario as long as a User is registered to an Application the Group membership will allow them to inherit the corresponding Roles from the Group.

The following APIs are provided to manage Groups and Group Membership.

* <<Create a Group>>
* <<Retrieve a Group>>
* <<Update a Group>>
* <<Delete a Group>>
* <<Add Users to a Group>>
* <<Remove Users from a Group>>


== Create a Group

This API is used to create a new Group.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Create a Group with a randomly generated Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/group#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Create a Group with the provided unique Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/group/`\{groupId\}`#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Headers
|===
|[field]#X-FusionAuth-TenantId# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The Header specifying the Id of the Tenant this request is scoped for.  This Header is not required when the [field]#Authorization# header is provided with a tenant-scoped API key.  Refer to the link:../users/tenants[Tenant overview] for more detail on providing a Tenant Id on the request.

|[field]#Authorization# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The Authorization header specifying a tenant-scoped API key as a Bearer token.  This Header is not required when the [field]#X-FusionAuth-TenantId# header is provided.  Refer to the link:../users/tenants[Tenant overview] for more detail on providing a Tenant Id on the request.
|===

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#groupId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to secure random UUID#
|The Id to use for the new Group. If not specified a secure random UUID will be generated.
|===

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_group-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the Group that was created.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

:response_body_title: Response Body for a single Group
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_group-response-body.adoc[]

== Retrieve a Group

This API is used to retrieve a single Group by unique Id or all of the configured Groups.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Retrieve all of the Groups
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/group#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Retrieve a Group by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/group/`\{groupId\}`#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#groupId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The unique Id of the Group to retrieve.
|===

=== Response

The response for this API contains either a single Group or all of the Groups. When you call this API with an Id the response will contain a single Group. When you call this API without an Id the response will contain all of the Groups. Both response types are defined below along with an example JSON response.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_group-response-body.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_groups-response-body.adoc[]

== Update a Group

This API is used to update an existing Group. You must specify the Id of the Group you are updating on the URI. You must specify all of the properties of the Group when calling this API. This API does not merge the existing Group and your new data. It replaces the existing Group with your new data.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Update the Group with the given Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/group/`\{groupId\}`#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#groupId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The Id of the Group to update.
|===

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_group-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the Group that was updated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-put-response-codes.adoc[]

:response_body_title: Response Body
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_group-response-body.adoc[]


== Delete a Group

This API is used to permanently delete a Group. Deleting a Group that has Application Roles will effectively modify User Registrations by removing these Roles from Group members.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Delete a Group by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/group/`\{groupId\}`#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#groupId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The unique Id of the Group to delete.
|===

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc[]

== Add Users to a Group

This API is used to add Users to a Group. A User that is added to a Group is called a member, a user can belong to one to many Groups.

Adding a User to a Group can be used to logically group users, Group members can be returned by the Search API by searching by the Group Id. Application Roles may also be managed by a Group membership. When a User becomes a member of a Group they will inherit the Application Roles assigned to the Group for their registered Applications. If a User is not registered for an Application the Application Roles for that Application will not be applied to the User.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Add Users to Group
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/group/member#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_member-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_member-response-body.adoc[]


== Remove Users from a Group

This API is used to remove Users from a Group. Removing a User from a Group removes their Group membership. Removing a User from a Group effectively modifies their assigned Roles if Application Roles are being managed through the Group membership.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Remove a single User from a Group by Member Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/group/member/`\{memberId\}`#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#memberId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The unique Id of the Group Member to delete.
|===

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Remove a single User from a Group by User Id and Group Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/group/member``?groupId={groupId}&userId={userId}``#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#groupId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The unique Id of the Group to remove the User from.

|[field]#userId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The unique Id of the User to remove from the Group.
|===

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Remove all Users from a Group
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/group/member``?groupId={groupId}``#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#groupId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The unique Id of the Group.
|===

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Remove Users from a Group by Member Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/group/member#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_group-delete-members-by-id-request-body.adoc[]

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Remove specified Users from a Group by Group Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/group/member#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_group-delete-members-request-body.adoc[]


=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc[]
