site/docs/v1/tech/apis/integrations.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Integration APIs
description: APIs for retrieving and updating integrations
---

== Overview

This page contains the APIs that are used for retrieving and updating integrations. An integration is a third party API that has been integrated into FusionAuth. These APIs are used to enable and configure these third party integration.

* <<Retrieve Integrations>>
* <<Update Integrations>>

== Retrieve Integrations

This API is used to retrieve integrations.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Retrieve Integrations
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/integration#
--

=== Response

The response for this API contains the Integrations.

:no_errors:
:never_missing:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]
:never_missing!:
:no_errors!:

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_integration-response-body.adoc[]


== Update Integrations

This API is used to update the global System Configuration object.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Update Integrations
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/integration#
--

:api_endpoint: pass:normal[/api/integration]
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_patch-support.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_integration-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains Integrations.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_integration-response-body.adoc[]

Commit message:

Update documentation to reflect breaking changes (#632)

site/docs/v1/tech/apis/integrations.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Integration APIs
description: APIs for retrieving and updating integrations
---

== Overview

This page contains the APIs that are used for retrieving and updating integrations. An integration is a third party API that has been integrated into FusionAuth. These APIs are used to enable and configure these third party integration.

[WARNING.warning]
====
This API underwent breaking changes in version 1.26. Twilio integrations are now managed by the

`link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/messengers/[Messengers API]`.
====

* <<Retrieve Integrations>>
* <<Update Integrations>>

== Retrieve Integrations

This API is used to retrieve integrations.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Retrieve Integrations
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/integration#
--

=== Response

The response for this API contains the Integrations.

:no_errors:
:never_missing:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]
:never_missing!:
:no_errors!:

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_integration-response-body.adoc[]


== Update Integrations

This API is used to update the global System Configuration object.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Update Integrations
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/integration#
--

:api_endpoint: pass:normal[/api/integration]
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_patch-support.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_integration-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains Integrations.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_integration-response-body.adoc[]
