site/docs/v1/tech/apis/lambdas.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Lambdas APIs
description: APIs for creating, retrieving, updating and deleting lambdas
---

== Overview

[NOTE.since]
====
This API has been available since 1.6.0
====

Lambdas are user defined JavaScript functions that may be executed at runtime to perform various functions. Lambdas may be used to customize the claims returned in a JWT, reconcile a SAML v2 response or an OpenID Connect response when using these external identity providers.

* <<Create a Lambda>>
* <<Retrieve a Lambda>>
* <<Update a Lambda>>
* <<Delete a Lambda>>

== Create a Lambda

This API is used to create a Lambda.

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Create a Lambda with a randomly generated Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/lambda#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Create a Lambda with the provided unique Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/lambda/`\{lambdaId\}`#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#lambdaId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to secure random UUID#
|The Id to use for the new Lambda. If not specified a secure random UUID will be generated.
|===

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_lambda-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the Lambda that was created.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_lambda-response-body.adoc[]

== Retrieve a Lambda

This API is used to retrieve a single Lambda by unique Id or all of the Lambdas.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Retrieve all of the Lambdas
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/lambda#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Retrieve all Lambdas by type
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/lambda``?type=\{type\}``#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Retrieve a Lambda by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/lambda/`\{lambdaId\}`#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#lambdaId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The unique Id of the Lambda to retrieve.
|===

=== Response

The response for this API contains either a single Lambda or all of the Lambdas. When you call this API with an Id the response will contain a single Lambda. When you call this API without an Id the response will contain all of the Lambdas. Both response types are defined below along with an example JSON response.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_lambda-response-body.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_lambda-responses-body.adoc[]

== Update a Lambda

This API is used to update an existing Lambda. The lambda type may not be changed.

[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/lambda/`\{lambdaId\}`#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#lambdaId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The unique Id of the Lambda to update.
|===

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_lambda-put-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the Lambda that was updated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-put-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_lambda-response-body.adoc[]

== Delete a Lambda

This API is used to delete a Lambda.

[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/lambda/`\{lambdaId\}`#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#lambdaId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The unique Id of the Lambda to delete.
|===

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc[]

Commit message:

Document `type` parameter FusionAuth/fusionauth-internal-issues#30

site/docs/v1/tech/apis/lambdas.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Lambdas APIs
description: APIs for creating, retrieving, updating and deleting lambdas
---

== Overview

[NOTE.since]
====
This API has been available since 1.6.0
====

Lambdas are user defined JavaScript functions that may be executed at runtime to perform various functions. Lambdas may be used to customize the claims returned in a JWT, reconcile a SAML v2 response or an OpenID Connect response when using these external identity providers.

* <<Create a Lambda>>
* <<Retrieve a Lambda>>
* <<Update a Lambda>>
* <<Delete a Lambda>>

== Create a Lambda

This API is used to create a Lambda.

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Create a Lambda with a randomly generated Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/lambda#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Create a Lambda with the provided unique Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/lambda/`\{lambdaId\}`#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#lambdaId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to secure random UUID#
|The Id to use for the new Lambda. If not specified a secure random UUID will be generated.
|===

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_lambda-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the Lambda that was created.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_lambda-response-body.adoc[]

== Retrieve a Lambda

This API is used to retrieve a single Lambda by unique Id or all of the Lambdas.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Retrieve all of the Lambdas
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/lambda#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Retrieve all Lambdas by type
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/lambda``?type=\{type\}``#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#type# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#
|The type of Lambdas to retrieve.  The possible values are:

* `JWTPopulate`
* `OpenIDReconcile`
* `SAMLv2Reconcile`
* `SAMLv2Populate`
|===

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Retrieve a Lambda by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/lambda/`\{lambdaId\}`#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#lambdaId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The unique Id of the Lambda to retrieve.
|===

=== Response

The response for this API contains either a single Lambda or all of the Lambdas. When you call this API with an Id the response will contain a single Lambda. When you call this API without an Id the response will contain all of the Lambdas. Both response types are defined below along with an example JSON response.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_lambda-response-body.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_lambda-responses-body.adoc[]

== Update a Lambda

This API is used to update an existing Lambda. The lambda type may not be changed.

[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/lambda/`\{lambdaId\}`#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#lambdaId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The unique Id of the Lambda to update.
|===

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_lambda-put-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the Lambda that was updated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-put-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_lambda-response-body.adoc[]

== Delete a Lambda

This API is used to delete a Lambda.

[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/lambda/`\{lambdaId\}`#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#lambdaId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The unique Id of the Lambda to delete.
|===

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc[]
