site/docs/v1/tech/apis/message-templates.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Message Template APIs
description: APIs for creating, retrieving, updating and deleting message templates
---

== Overview

[NOTE.since]
====
This API has been available since 1.26.0
====

This page contains the APIs for managing Message Templates as well as messaging users using those templates. Here are the APIs:

* <<Create a Message Template>>
* <<Retrieve a Message Template>>
* <<Update a Message Template>>
* <<Delete a Message Template>>
* <<Preview a Message Template>>


== Create a Message Template

This API is used to create a Message Template. Specifying an Id on the URI will instruct FusionAuth to use that Id when creating the Message Template. Otherwise, FusionAuth will generate an Id for the Message Template.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Create a Message Template without providing an Id. An Id will be automatically generated.
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/message/template#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Create a Message Template with the provided Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/message/template/``\{messageTemplateId\}``#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#messageTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to secure random UUID#::
The Id to use for the new Message Template. If not specified a secure random UUID will be generated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_message-template-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the information for the Message Template that was created.

:never_search_error:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]
:never_search_error!:

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_message-template-response-body.adoc[]


== Retrieve a Message Template

This API is used to retrieve one or all of the configured Message Templates. Specifying an Id on the URI will retrieve a single Message Template. Leaving off the Id will retrieve all of the Message Templates.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Retrieve all of the Message Templates
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/message/template#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Retrieve a single Message Template by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/message/template/``\{messageTemplateId\}``#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#messageTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#::
The Id of the Message Template to retrieve.

=== Response

The response for this API contains either a single Message Template or all of the Message Templates. When you call this API with an Id the response will contain just that Message Template. When you call this API without an Id the response will contain all of the Message Templates. Both response types are defined below along with an example JSON response.

:no_errors:
:never_search_error:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]
:no_errors!:
:never_search_error!:

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_message-template-response-body.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_message-templates-response-body.adoc[]


== Update a Message Template

This API is used to update a Message Template. You must specify the Id of the Message Template to update on the URI.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Update a Message Template by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/message/template/``\{messageTemplateId\}``#
--

:api_endpoint: pass:normal[/api/message/template/``\{messageTemplateId\}``]
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_patch-support.adoc[]

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#messageTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Message Template to update.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_message-template-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the new information for the Message Template that was updated.

:never_search_error:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-put-response-codes.adoc[]
:never_search_error!:

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_message-template-response-body.adoc[]


== Delete a Message Template

This API is used to delete a Message Template. You must specify the Id of the Message Template on the URI.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Delete a Message Template By Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/message/template/``\{messageTemplateId\}``#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#messageTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Message Template to delete.

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

:never_search_error:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc[]
:never_search_error!:


== Preview a Message Template

This API is used to preview a Message Template. You pass all of the information for the Message Template in the request and a rendered version of the Message is sent back to you in the response. The Message Template in the request does not need to be completely filled out. You can send in a partial Message Template and the response will contain only what you provided.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Preview a Message Template
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/message/template/preview#
--

==== Request Body

[.api]
[field]#locale# [type]#[Locale]# [optional]#Optional#::
The locale to use when rendering the Message Template. If this is null or omitted, the defaults will be used and the localized versions will be ignored.

[field]#messageTemplate.defaultTemplate# [type]#[String (FreeMarker Enabled)]# [required]#Required#::
The default Message Template to preview.

[field]#messageTemplate.localizedTemplates# [type]#[Map<Locale,String (FreeMarker Enabled)>]# [optional]#Optional#::
The Message Template used when sending messages to users who speak other languages. This overrides the default Message Template based on the [field]#locale# string passed.

[field]#messageTemplate.type# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The type of the template. This must be the value `SMS`.

[source,json]
.Example Preview Request JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/message-templates/preview-request.json[]
----

=== Response

The response for this API contains the rendered Message and also an Errors that contains any rendering issues FusionAuth found. The template might have syntax or logic errors and FusionAuth will put these errors into the response.

:never_search_error:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]
:never_search_error!:

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_message-preview-response-body.adoc[]

Commit message:

Noted that preview uses mock user and code values.

site/docs/v1/tech/apis/message-templates.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Message Template APIs
description: APIs for creating, retrieving, updating and deleting message templates
---

== Overview

[NOTE.since]
====
This API has been available since 1.26.0
====

This page contains the APIs for managing Message Templates as well as messaging users using those templates. Here are the APIs:

* <<Create a Message Template>>
* <<Retrieve a Message Template>>
* <<Update a Message Template>>
* <<Delete a Message Template>>
* <<Preview a Message Template>>


== Create a Message Template

This API is used to create a Message Template. Specifying an Id on the URI will instruct FusionAuth to use that Id when creating the Message Template. Otherwise, FusionAuth will generate an Id for the Message Template.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Create a Message Template without providing an Id. An Id will be automatically generated.
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/message/template#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Create a Message Template with the provided Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/message/template/``\{messageTemplateId\}``#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#messageTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to secure random UUID#::
The Id to use for the new Message Template. If not specified a secure random UUID will be generated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_message-template-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the information for the Message Template that was created.

:never_search_error:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]
:never_search_error!:

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_message-template-response-body.adoc[]


== Retrieve a Message Template

This API is used to retrieve one or all of the configured Message Templates. Specifying an Id on the URI will retrieve a single Message Template. Leaving off the Id will retrieve all of the Message Templates.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Retrieve all of the Message Templates
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/message/template#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Retrieve a single Message Template by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/message/template/``\{messageTemplateId\}``#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#messageTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#::
The Id of the Message Template to retrieve.

=== Response

The response for this API contains either a single Message Template or all of the Message Templates. When you call this API with an Id the response will contain just that Message Template. When you call this API without an Id the response will contain all of the Message Templates. Both response types are defined below along with an example JSON response.

:no_errors:
:never_search_error:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]
:no_errors!:
:never_search_error!:

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_message-template-response-body.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_message-templates-response-body.adoc[]


== Update a Message Template

This API is used to update a Message Template. You must specify the Id of the Message Template to update on the URI.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Update a Message Template by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/message/template/``\{messageTemplateId\}``#
--

:api_endpoint: pass:normal[/api/message/template/``\{messageTemplateId\}``]
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_patch-support.adoc[]

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#messageTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Message Template to update.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_message-template-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the new information for the Message Template that was updated.

:never_search_error:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-put-response-codes.adoc[]
:never_search_error!:

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_message-template-response-body.adoc[]


== Delete a Message Template

This API is used to delete a Message Template. You must specify the Id of the Message Template on the URI.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Delete a Message Template By Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/message/template/``\{messageTemplateId\}``#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#messageTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the Message Template to delete.

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

:never_search_error:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc[]
:never_search_error!:


== Preview a Message Template

This API is used to preview a Message Template. You pass all of the information for the Message Template in the request and a rendered version of the Message is sent back to you in the response. 

FusionAuth provides sample values for the `${code}` and `${user}` objects when previewing. The value for `${code}` will always be `123456`.

The Message Template in the request does not need to be completely filled out. You can send in a partial Message Template and the response will contain only what you provided.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Preview a Message Template
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/message/template/preview#
--

==== Request Body

[.api]
[field]#locale# [type]#[Locale]# [optional]#Optional#::
The locale to use when rendering the Message Template. If this is null or omitted, the defaults will be used and the localized versions will be ignored.

[field]#messageTemplate.defaultTemplate# [type]#[String (FreeMarker Enabled)]# [required]#Required#::
The default Message Template to preview.

[field]#messageTemplate.localizedTemplates# [type]#[Map<Locale,String (FreeMarker Enabled)>]# [optional]#Optional#::
The Message Template used when sending messages to users who speak other languages. This overrides the default Message Template based on the [field]#locale# string passed.

[field]#messageTemplate.type# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The type of the template. This must be the value `SMS`.

[source,json]
.Example Preview Request JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/message-templates/preview-request.json[]
----

=== Response

The response for this API contains the rendered Message and also an Errors that contains any rendering issues FusionAuth found. The template might have syntax or logic errors and FusionAuth will put these errors into the response.

:never_search_error:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]
:never_search_error!:

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_message-preview-response-body.adoc[]
