site/docs/v1/tech/apis/system.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: System APIs
description: APIs for retrieving and updating the system configuration
---

++++
<style>
dd p.deprecated {
  color: #B20000;
  font-weight: 500;
  margin-bottom: 0 !important;
  margin-top: 25px !important;
}
</style>
++++

== Overview

This page contains the APIs that are used for retrieving and updating the system configuration.

=== System Configuration
* <<Retrieve the System Configuration>>
* <<Update the System Configuration>>

=== System Tools
* <<Export System Logs>>
* <<Retrieve the Logging Level>>
* <<Update the Logging Level>>

=== System Status
* <<Retrieve System Status>>


== Retrieve the System Configuration

This API is used to retrieve the System Configuration.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Retrieve the System Configuration
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/system-configuration#
--

=== Response

The response for this API contains the System Configuration.

:no_errors:
:never_missing:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]
:never_missing!:
:no_errors!:

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_system-configuration-response-body.adoc[]

== Update the System Configuration

This API is used to update System Configuration.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Update the System Configuration
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/system-configuration#
--

:api_endpoint: pass:normal[/api/system-configuration]
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_patch-support.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_system-configuration-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the System Configuration.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_system-configuration-response-body.adoc[]

== Export System Logs

[NOTE.since]
====
Available Since Version 1.16.0
====

This API is used to export the System Logs, the response will be a compressed zip archive containing the logs from the configured log directory. When running FusionAuth on Docker or other container service where logs are written to `stdout` and not written to the file system, this API will return an empty archive.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Export the System Logs
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/system/log/export``?dateTimeSecondsFormat=\{dateTimeSecondsFormat\}&lastNBytes=\{lastNBytes\}&zoneId=\{zoneId\}``#
--

When calling the API using a `GET` request you will send the export criteria on the URL using request parameters.

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#dateTimeSecondsFormat# [type]#[String]#  [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to **[see description]**#::
The format string used to format the date and time columns in the export result.
+
When this parameter is omitted a default format of `M/d/yyyy hh:mm:ss a z` will be used. See the https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/time/format/DateTimeFormatter.html[DateTimeFormatter patterns] for additional examples.

[field]#lastNBytes# [type]#[Long]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `65,536`#::
The number of bytes to retrieve from the end of each of the system logs.  When this value is `-1`, the entire log will be downloaded.

[field]#zoneId# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to **[see description]**#::
The link:/docs/v1/tech/reference/data-types#time-zone[time zone] used to calculate the current time and build the filename.
+
For example:
+
[quote]
`America/Denver` or `US/Mountain`
+
&nbsp;
+
When this parameter is omitted the configured default report time zone will be used. See [field]#reportTimezone# in the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/system/[System Configuration API].

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Export the System Logs
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/system/system-log/export#
--

When calling the API using a `POST` request you will send the export criteria in a JSON request body.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_system-logs-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API will contain a compressed zip of the system logs.

:never_missing:
:never_search_error:
:success_code: 200
:success_message: pass:normal[The request was successful. The response will be a compressed archive byte stream with a `Content-Type` of `application/zip`.]
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]
:success_code!:
:success_message!:
:never_search_error!:
:never_missing!:

== Retrieve the Logging Level

The Logger API is used to retrieve the current log level for a particular logger by name.

[WARNING]
====
This API is subject to change and should only be used under instruction from FusionAuth support.
====

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Retrieve the logging level by logger name
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/logger``?name=\{name\}``#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#name# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The logger name for which you are requesting to retrieve the current logging level.

=== Response

:never_missing:
:never_search_error:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]
:never_search_error!:
:never_missing!:

==== Response Body

[.api]
[field]#name# [type]#[String]#::
The name of the logger.

[field]#level# [type]#[String]#::
The current logging level. Possible values are:
+
* `error`
* `warn`
* `info`
* `debug`
* `trace`
* `off`

[source,json]
.Example JSON Response
----
include::docs/src/json/logger/response.json[]
----

== Update the Logging Level

This API is used to update the log level for a particular FusionAuth package.

[WARNING]
====
This API is subject to change and should only be used under instruction from FusionAuth support.
====

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Update the logging level by logger name
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/logger#
--


==== Request Headers

[.api]
[field]#Content-Type# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The request body is expected to be sent using form encoded data. Ensure your HTTP client sends the the `Content-Type` request header set to `application/x-www-form-urlencoded`.

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#name# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The logger name for which you are requesting to update the current logging level.

[field]#level# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The requested logging level. Possible values are:
+
* `error`
* `warn`
* `info`
* `debug`
* `trace`
* `off`

=== Response

:never_missing:
:never_search_error:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]
:never_search_error!:
:never_missing!:

==== Response Body

[.api]
[field]#level# [type]#[String]#::
The logging level. If the request was successful, this value should be equal to the request value.  Possible values are:
+
* `error`
* `warn`
* `info`
* `debug`
* `trace`
* `off`

[source,json]
.Example JSON Response
----
include::docs/src/json/logger/response.json[]
----

== Retrieve System Status

The Status API is used to retrieve the current status and metrics for FusionAuth. This is useful for health checks and monitoring.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#no-authentication-required[icon:unlock[type=fas]] Return the system status without an API key
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/status#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#no-authentication-required[icon:lock[type=fas]] Return the system status with an API key
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/status#
--

=== Response
The JSON response from the Status API is complex and subject to change. The specific contents of the JSON body are not documented here. If you choose to use this API for monitoring purposes you should primarily use the response code to indicate server health. If you receive a `200` you may consider FusionAuth in a healthy state. The response body is intended for use by FusionAuth support.

[cols="1,9"]
.Response Codes
|===
|Code |Description

|200
|The FusionAuth is functioning properly

|452
| The FusionAuth is failing to make a JDBC connection to the configured database.

[since]#Available since 1.19.0#

|453
|The FusionAuth database connection pool connectivity is below the healthy threshold. Additional information may be available in the JSON response which be retrieved when using an API key.

[since]#Available since 1.19.0#

|454
|The FusionAuth database connectivity pool connectivity is below the healthy threshold. Additional information may be available in the JSON response which be retrieved when using an API key.

[since]#Available since 1.19.0#

|460
|FusionAuth is using Elasticsearch and the the search service is reporting an unhealthy cluster status. In a cluster with 2+ nodes, this mean the cluster status is being reported as `yellow` or `red`. In a single node Elasticsearch configuration this means the cluster status is `red.`

[since]#Available since 1.19.0#

|500
|The FusionAuth server is not functioning properly. This could indicate that the database connectivity failed or one or more services within FusionAuth failed. Consult the FusionAuth link:/docs/v1/tech/troubleshooting/[Troubleshooting] to learn more about the failure or contact FusionAuth support for assistance.
|===

Commit message:

Add verbiage about version to system endpoint

site/docs/v1/tech/apis/system.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: System APIs
description: APIs for retrieving and updating the system configuration
---

++++
<style>
dd p.deprecated {
  color: #B20000;
  font-weight: 500;
  margin-bottom: 0 !important;
  margin-top: 25px !important;
}
</style>
++++

== Overview

This page contains the APIs that are used for retrieving and updating the system configuration.

=== System Configuration
* <<Retrieve the System Configuration>>
* <<Update the System Configuration>>

=== System Tools
* <<Export System Logs>>
* <<Retrieve the Logging Level>>
* <<Update the Logging Level>>

=== System Status
* <<Retrieve System Status>>


== Retrieve the System Configuration

This API is used to retrieve the System Configuration.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Retrieve the System Configuration
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/system-configuration#
--

=== Response

The response for this API contains the System Configuration.

:no_errors:
:never_missing:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]
:never_missing!:
:no_errors!:

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_system-configuration-response-body.adoc[]

== Update the System Configuration

This API is used to update System Configuration.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Update the System Configuration
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/system-configuration#
--

:api_endpoint: pass:normal[/api/system-configuration]
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_patch-support.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_system-configuration-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the System Configuration.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_system-configuration-response-body.adoc[]

== Export System Logs

[NOTE.since]
====
Available Since Version 1.16.0
====

This API is used to export the System Logs, the response will be a compressed zip archive containing the logs from the configured log directory. When running FusionAuth on Docker or other container service where logs are written to `stdout` and not written to the file system, this API will return an empty archive.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Export the System Logs
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/system/log/export``?dateTimeSecondsFormat=\{dateTimeSecondsFormat\}&lastNBytes=\{lastNBytes\}&zoneId=\{zoneId\}``#
--

When calling the API using a `GET` request you will send the export criteria on the URL using request parameters.

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#dateTimeSecondsFormat# [type]#[String]#  [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to **[see description]**#::
The format string used to format the date and time columns in the export result.
+
When this parameter is omitted a default format of `M/d/yyyy hh:mm:ss a z` will be used. See the https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/time/format/DateTimeFormatter.html[DateTimeFormatter patterns] for additional examples.

[field]#lastNBytes# [type]#[Long]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `65,536`#::
The number of bytes to retrieve from the end of each of the system logs.  When this value is `-1`, the entire log will be downloaded.

[field]#zoneId# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to **[see description]**#::
The link:/docs/v1/tech/reference/data-types#time-zone[time zone] used to calculate the current time and build the filename.
+
For example:
+
[quote]
`America/Denver` or `US/Mountain`
+
&nbsp;
+
When this parameter is omitted the configured default report time zone will be used. See [field]#reportTimezone# in the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/system/[System Configuration API].

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Export the System Logs
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/system/system-log/export#
--

When calling the API using a `POST` request you will send the export criteria in a JSON request body.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_system-logs-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API will contain a compressed zip of the system logs.

:never_missing:
:never_search_error:
:success_code: 200
:success_message: pass:normal[The request was successful. The response will be a compressed archive byte stream with a `Content-Type` of `application/zip`.]
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]
:success_code!:
:success_message!:
:never_search_error!:
:never_missing!:

== Retrieve the Logging Level

The Logger API is used to retrieve the current log level for a particular logger by name.

[WARNING]
====
This API is subject to change and should only be used under instruction from FusionAuth support.
====

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Retrieve the logging level by logger name
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/logger``?name=\{name\}``#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#name# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The logger name for which you are requesting to retrieve the current logging level.

=== Response

:never_missing:
:never_search_error:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]
:never_search_error!:
:never_missing!:

==== Response Body

[.api]
[field]#name# [type]#[String]#::
The name of the logger.

[field]#level# [type]#[String]#::
The current logging level. Possible values are:
+
* `error`
* `warn`
* `info`
* `debug`
* `trace`
* `off`

[source,json]
.Example JSON Response
----
include::docs/src/json/logger/response.json[]
----

== Update the Logging Level

This API is used to update the log level for a particular FusionAuth package.

[WARNING]
====
This API is subject to change and should only be used under instruction from FusionAuth support.
====

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Update the logging level by logger name
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/logger#
--


==== Request Headers

[.api]
[field]#Content-Type# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The request body is expected to be sent using form encoded data. Ensure your HTTP client sends the the `Content-Type` request header set to `application/x-www-form-urlencoded`.

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#name# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The logger name for which you are requesting to update the current logging level.

[field]#level# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The requested logging level. Possible values are:
+
* `error`
* `warn`
* `info`
* `debug`
* `trace`
* `off`

=== Response

:never_missing:
:never_search_error:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]
:never_search_error!:
:never_missing!:

==== Response Body

[.api]
[field]#level# [type]#[String]#::
The logging level. If the request was successful, this value should be equal to the request value.  Possible values are:
+
* `error`
* `warn`
* `info`
* `debug`
* `trace`
* `off`

[source,json]
.Example JSON Response
----
include::docs/src/json/logger/response.json[]
----

== Retrieve System Status

The Status API is used to retrieve the current status and metrics for FusionAuth. This is useful for health checks and monitoring.

[NOTE]
====
FusionAuth also supports a system status check using Prometheus.  See Prometheus documentation here.
====

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#no-authentication-required[icon:unlock[type=fas]] Return the system status without an API key
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/status#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#no-authentication-required[icon:lock[type=fas]] Return the system status with an API key
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/status#
--

=== Response
The JSON response from the Status API is complex and subject to change excepting the `version` key.

`version` will not change and will be returned as below.  As a reminder, an API key is required to obtain this value.
```javascript
{
//..
    "version": "1.26.1"
//..
}
```

The specific contents of the JSON body are not documented here. If you choose to use this API for monitoring purposes you should primarily use the response code to indicate server health. If you receive a `200` you may consider FusionAuth in a healthy state. The response body is intended for use by FusionAuth support.

[cols="1,9"]
.Response Codes
|===
|Code |Description

|200
|The FusionAuth is functioning properly

|452
| The FusionAuth is failing to make a JDBC connection to the configured database.

[since]#Available since 1.19.0#

|453
|The FusionAuth database connection pool connectivity is below the healthy threshold. Additional information may be available in the JSON response which be retrieved when using an API key.

[since]#Available since 1.19.0#

|454
|The FusionAuth database connectivity pool connectivity is below the healthy threshold. Additional information may be available in the JSON response which be retrieved when using an API key.

[since]#Available since 1.19.0#

|460
|FusionAuth is using Elasticsearch and the the search service is reporting an unhealthy cluster status. In a cluster with 2+ nodes, this mean the cluster status is being reported as `yellow` or `red`. In a single node Elasticsearch configuration this means the cluster status is `red.`

[since]#Available since 1.19.0#

|500
|The FusionAuth server is not functioning properly. This could indicate that the database connectivity failed or one or more services within FusionAuth failed. Consult the FusionAuth link:/docs/v1/tech/troubleshooting/[Troubleshooting] to learn more about the failure or contact FusionAuth support for assistance.
|===
