site/docs/v1/tech/apis/two-factor.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Multi-Factor/Two Factor APIs
description: APIs for enabling and disabling Multi-Factor Authentication
---

== Overview

This API allows you to manage Multi-Factor authentication (MFA) for users. 

[WARNING.warning]
====
This API underwent breaking changes in version 1.26. You can view the link:../two-factor-1-25[1.25 Two Factor documentation] if needed.
====

include::docs/v1/tech/shared/_premium-edition-blurb.adoc[]

**However, the Authenticator/TOTP implementation is not a premium feature.**

* <<Enable Multi-Factor>>
* <<Disable Multi-Factor>>
* <<Generate a Secret>>
* <<Start Multi-Factor>>
* <<Send a Multi-Factor Code During Login or Step Up>>
* <<Send a Multi-Factor Code When Enabling MFA>>
* <<Send a Multi-Factor Code When Disabling MFA>>

== Authentication

Some of these operations can use JWT authentication instead of API key authentication. 

Learn more about link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication/#jwt-authentication[JWT authentication and see examples here].

In some cases, when you have a valid [field]#twoFactorId#, neither a JWT nor an API key is required.

== Enable Multi-Factor

This API is used to enable Multi-Factor authentication for a single User. To use this API the User must provide a valid
Multi-Factor verification code.

If using message based delivery, you may <<Send a Multi-Factor Code When Enabling MFA>> to deliver a
code to the User. The User will then provide this code as input.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Enable Multi-Factor Authentication With a UserId 
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/user/two-factor/`{userId}`#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#userId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the User for whom to enable Multi-Factor authentication.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_two-factor-enable-request-body.adoc[]

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#jwt-authentication[icon:id-badge[type=fas]] Enable Multi-Factor Authentication Using a JWT
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/user/two-factor#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_two-factor-enable-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

[cols="1,9"]
.Response Codes
|===
|Code |Description

|200
|The request was successful. Multi-Factor has been enabled for the User.

|400
|The request was invalid and/or malformed. The response will contain an link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/errors/[Errors] JSON Object with the specific errors. This status will also be returned if a paid FusionAuth license is required and is not present.

|401
|You did not supply a valid Authorization header. The header was omitted or your API key was not valid. The response will be empty. See link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication/[Authentication]. 

|404
|The User does not exist. The response will be empty.

|421
|The `code` request parameter is not valid. The response will be empty.

|500
|There was an internal error. A stack trace is provided and logged in the FusionAuth log files. The response will be empty.

|503
|The search index is not available or encountered an exception so the request cannot be completed. The response will contain a JSON body.
|===


include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_two-factor-recovery-codes.adoc[]


== Disable Multi-Factor

This API is used to disable Multi-Factor authentication for a single User. To use this API the User must provide a valid
Multi-Factor verification code or recovery code.

If using message based delivery, you may <<Send a Multi-Factor Code When Disabling MFA>> to deliver a
code to the User. The User will then provide this code as input.

If a recovery code is provided, all methods will be removed.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Disable Multi-Factor Authentication With a UserId
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/user/two-factor/`{userId}?code={code}&methodId={methodId}`#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_two-factor-disable-request-parameters.adoc[]

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#jwt-authentication[icon:id-badge[type=fas]] Disable Multi-Factor Authentication Using a JWT
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/user/two-factor``?code={code}&methodId={methodId}``#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_two-factor-disable-request-parameters.adoc[]

=== Response

[cols="1,9"]
.Response Codes
|===
|Code |Description

|200
|The request was successful. Multi-Factor has been disabled for the User.

|400
|The request was invalid and/or malformed. The response will contain an link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/errors/[Errors] JSON Object with the specific errors.

|401
|You did not supply a valid Authorization header. The header was omitted or your API key was not valid. The response will be empty. See link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication/[Authentication].

|404
|The User does not exist. The response will be empty.

|421
|The `code` request parameter is not valid. The response will be empty.

|500
|There was an internal error. A stack trace is provided and logged in the FusionAuth log files. The response will be empty.

|503
|The search index is not available or encountered an exception so the request cannot be completed. The response will contain a JSON body.
|===

== Generate a Secret

This API is used to generate a new Multi-Factor secret for use when enabling Multi-Factor authentication for a User. This is provided
as a helper to assist you in enabling Multi-Factor authentication.

If this secret will be used with a QR code to allow the User to scan the value, use the Base32 encoded value returned in the response.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Generate a Multi-Factor Secret
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/two-factor/secret#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#jwt-authentication[icon:id-badge[type=fas]] Generate a Multi-Factor Secret
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/two-factor/secret#
--

=== Response

The response for this API contains a Multi-Factor secret suitable for an authenticator like Google Authenticator.

:never_missing:
:no_errors:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]
:no_errors!:
:never_missing!:

==== Response Body

[.api]
[field]#secret# [type]#[String]#::
A Base64 encoded secret that may be used to enable Multi-Factor authentication.

[field]#secretBase32Encoded# [type]#[String]#::
A Base32 encoded form of the provided secret. This is useful if you need to provide a QR code to the User to enable Multi-Factor authentication.

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/two-factor/secret/response.json[]
----

== Start Multi-Factor

Starts an Multi-Factor request. This would be used for step up auth, such as when sensitive data is requested or for where you need to control the Multi-Factor Authentication process.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Start Multi-Factor Authentication
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/user/two-factor/start#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_two-factor-start-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

:missing_message: The User does not exist. The response will be empty.
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]
:missing_message!:

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_two-factor-start-response-body.adoc[]

== Send a Multi-Factor Code During Login or Step Up

This operation allows you to send a message with a code to finish a Multi-Factor flow, and requires an existing `twoFactorId`. No API key is required. 

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#no-authentication-required[icon:unlock[type=fas]] Send a Multi-Factor code to complete Multi-Factor Login
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/two-factor/send/`{twoFactorId}`#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#twoFactorId# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The `twoFactorId` returned by the Login API or the Start Multi-Factor request.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

==== Request Body

[.api]
[field]#methodId# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the MFA method to be used.

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/two-factor/send/twoFactorId-request.json[]
----

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

:success_code: 200
:success_message: The request was successful.
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]
:success_code!:
:success_message!:

== Send a Multi-Factor Code When Enabling MFA

You are enabling MFA for a user. You must provide an API key or a valid JWT for the User you are modifying. You are using FusionAuth as your delivery mechanism.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Send a Multi-Factor code to an existing User by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/two-factor/send#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

==== Request Body

[.api]
[field]#email# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#::
The email to which send Multi-Factor codes. If the [field]#method# is equal to `email`, this is required.

[field]#method# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The type of the MFA method which will be added. The value provided here must be allowed in the Tenant MFA configuration as well.
+
Valid values are:
+
* `email`
* `sms`

[field]#mobilePhone# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#::
The mobile phone to which send Multi-Factor codes. If the [field]#method# is equal to `sms`, this is required.

[field]#userId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The User Id. 

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/two-factor/send/enable-userId-request.json[]
----


[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#jwt-authentication[icon:id-badge[type=fas]] Send a Multi-Factor code to an authenticated User using a JWT
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/two-factor/send#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

==== Request Body

[.api]
[field]#email# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#::
The email to which send Multi-Factor codes. If the [field]#method# is equal to `email`, this is required.

[field]#method# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The type of the MFA method which will be added. The value provided here must be allowed in the Tenant MFA configuration as well.
+
Valid values are:
+
* `email`
* `sms`

[field]#mobilePhone# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#::
The mobile phone to which send Multi-Factor codes. If the [field]#method# is equal to `sms`, this is required.

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/two-factor/send/enable-jwt-request.json[]
----

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

:success_code: 200
:success_message: The request was successful.
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]
:success_code!:
:success_message!:


== Send a Multi-Factor Code When Disabling MFA

You are disabling MFA for a user. You must provide an API key or a valid JWT for the User you are modifying. You are using FusionAuth as your delivery mechanism.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Send a Multi-Factor code to an existing User by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/two-factor/send#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

==== Request Body

[.api]
[field]#methodId# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the MFA method which will be removed.

[field]#userId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The User Id of the User to send a Multi-Factor verification code. This User is expected to already have Multi-Factor enabled.

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/two-factor/send/disable-userId-request.json[]
----

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#jwt-authentication[icon:id-badge[type=fas]] Send a Multi-Factor code to an authenticated User using a JWT
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/two-factor/send#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

==== Request Body

[.api]
[field]#methodId# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the MFA method which will be removed.

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/two-factor/send/disable-jwt-request.json[]
----

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

:success_code: 200
:success_message: The request was successful.
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]
:success_code!:
:success_message!:

Commit message:

Added additional section about TOTP configuration limitations.

site/docs/v1/tech/apis/two-factor.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Multi-Factor/Two Factor APIs
description: APIs for enabling and disabling Multi-Factor Authentication
---

== Overview

This API allows you to manage Multi-Factor authentication (MFA) for users. 

[WARNING.warning]
====
This API underwent breaking changes in version 1.26. You can view the link:../two-factor-1-25[1.25 Two Factor documentation] if needed.
====

include::docs/v1/tech/shared/_premium-edition-blurb.adoc[]

**However, the Authenticator/TOTP implementation is not a premium feature.**

* <<Authentication>>
* <<TOTP Implementation>>
* <<Enable Multi-Factor>>
* <<Disable Multi-Factor>>
* <<Generate a Secret>>
* <<Start Multi-Factor>>
* <<Send a Multi-Factor Code During Login or Step Up>>
* <<Send a Multi-Factor Code When Enabling MFA>>
* <<Send a Multi-Factor Code When Disabling MFA>>

== Authentication

Some of these operations can use JWT authentication instead of API key authentication. 

Learn more about link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication/#jwt-authentication[JWT authentication and see examples here].

In some cases, when you have a valid [field]#twoFactorId#, neither a JWT nor an API key is required.

== TOTP Implementation

Google Authenticator and other time based one-time password algorithms are not premium features and are included in the community edition.

While there is underlying infrastructure for different code lengths, algorithms and time steps, at the current time the system only allows for the following TOTP settings. 

[cols="1,1"]  
|=== 
|Configuration setting | Currently allowed value

|`algorithm`
|`HmacSHA1`

|`codeLength`
|`6`

|`timeStep`
|`30`

|=== 

Any attempt to change these configuration values will currently be ignored.

== Enable Multi-Factor

This API is used to enable Multi-Factor authentication for a single User. To use this API the User must provide a valid
Multi-Factor verification code.

If using message based delivery, you may <<Send a Multi-Factor Code When Enabling MFA>> to deliver a
code to the User. The User will then provide this code as input.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Enable Multi-Factor Authentication With a UserId 
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/user/two-factor/`{userId}`#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#userId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the User for whom to enable Multi-Factor authentication.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_two-factor-enable-request-body.adoc[]

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#jwt-authentication[icon:id-badge[type=fas]] Enable Multi-Factor Authentication Using a JWT
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/user/two-factor#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_two-factor-enable-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

[cols="1,9"]
.Response Codes
|===
|Code |Description

|200
|The request was successful. Multi-Factor has been enabled for the User.

|400
|The request was invalid and/or malformed. The response will contain an link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/errors/[Errors] JSON Object with the specific errors. This status will also be returned if a paid FusionAuth license is required and is not present.

|401
|You did not supply a valid Authorization header. The header was omitted or your API key was not valid. The response will be empty. See link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication/[Authentication]. 

|404
|The User does not exist. The response will be empty.

|421
|The `code` request parameter is not valid. The response will be empty.

|500
|There was an internal error. A stack trace is provided and logged in the FusionAuth log files. The response will be empty.

|503
|The search index is not available or encountered an exception so the request cannot be completed. The response will contain a JSON body.
|===


include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_two-factor-recovery-codes.adoc[]


== Disable Multi-Factor

This API is used to disable Multi-Factor authentication for a single User. To use this API the User must provide a valid
Multi-Factor verification code or recovery code.

If using message based delivery, you may <<Send a Multi-Factor Code When Disabling MFA>> to deliver a
code to the User. The User will then provide this code as input.

If a recovery code is provided, all methods will be removed.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Disable Multi-Factor Authentication With a UserId
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/user/two-factor/`{userId}?code={code}&methodId={methodId}`#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_two-factor-disable-request-parameters.adoc[]

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#jwt-authentication[icon:id-badge[type=fas]] Disable Multi-Factor Authentication Using a JWT
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/user/two-factor``?code={code}&methodId={methodId}``#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_two-factor-disable-request-parameters.adoc[]

=== Response

[cols="1,9"]
.Response Codes
|===
|Code |Description

|200
|The request was successful. Multi-Factor has been disabled for the User.

|400
|The request was invalid and/or malformed. The response will contain an link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/errors/[Errors] JSON Object with the specific errors.

|401
|You did not supply a valid Authorization header. The header was omitted or your API key was not valid. The response will be empty. See link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication/[Authentication].

|404
|The User does not exist. The response will be empty.

|421
|The `code` request parameter is not valid. The response will be empty.

|500
|There was an internal error. A stack trace is provided and logged in the FusionAuth log files. The response will be empty.

|503
|The search index is not available or encountered an exception so the request cannot be completed. The response will contain a JSON body.
|===

== Generate a Secret

This API is used to generate a new Multi-Factor secret for use when enabling Multi-Factor authentication for a User. This is provided
as a helper to assist you in enabling Multi-Factor authentication.

If this secret will be used with a QR code to allow the User to scan the value, use the Base32 encoded value returned in the response.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Generate a Multi-Factor Secret
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/two-factor/secret#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#jwt-authentication[icon:id-badge[type=fas]] Generate a Multi-Factor Secret
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/two-factor/secret#
--

=== Response

The response for this API contains a Multi-Factor secret suitable for an authenticator like Google Authenticator.

:never_missing:
:no_errors:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]
:no_errors!:
:never_missing!:

==== Response Body

[.api]
[field]#secret# [type]#[String]#::
A Base64 encoded secret that may be used to enable Multi-Factor authentication.

[field]#secretBase32Encoded# [type]#[String]#::
A Base32 encoded form of the provided secret. This is useful if you need to provide a QR code to the User to enable Multi-Factor authentication.

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/two-factor/secret/response.json[]
----

== Start Multi-Factor

Starts an Multi-Factor request. This would be used for step up auth, such as when sensitive data is requested or for where you need to control the Multi-Factor Authentication process.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Start Multi-Factor Authentication
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/user/two-factor/start#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_two-factor-start-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

:missing_message: The User does not exist. The response will be empty.
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]
:missing_message!:

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_two-factor-start-response-body.adoc[]

== Send a Multi-Factor Code During Login or Step Up

This operation allows you to send a message with a code to finish a Multi-Factor flow, and requires an existing `twoFactorId`. No API key is required. 

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#no-authentication-required[icon:unlock[type=fas]] Send a Multi-Factor code to complete Multi-Factor Login
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/two-factor/send/`{twoFactorId}`#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#twoFactorId# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The `twoFactorId` returned by the Login API or the Start Multi-Factor request.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

==== Request Body

[.api]
[field]#methodId# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the MFA method to be used.

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/two-factor/send/twoFactorId-request.json[]
----

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

:success_code: 200
:success_message: The request was successful.
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]
:success_code!:
:success_message!:

== Send a Multi-Factor Code When Enabling MFA

You are enabling MFA for a user. You must provide an API key or a valid JWT for the User you are modifying. You are using FusionAuth as your delivery mechanism.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Send a Multi-Factor code to an existing User by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/two-factor/send#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

==== Request Body

[.api]
[field]#email# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#::
The email to which send Multi-Factor codes. If the [field]#method# is equal to `email`, this is required.

[field]#method# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The type of the MFA method which will be added. The value provided here must be allowed in the Tenant MFA configuration as well.
+
Valid values are:
+
* `email`
* `sms`

[field]#mobilePhone# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#::
The mobile phone to which send Multi-Factor codes. If the [field]#method# is equal to `sms`, this is required.

[field]#userId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The User Id. 

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/two-factor/send/enable-userId-request.json[]
----


[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#jwt-authentication[icon:id-badge[type=fas]] Send a Multi-Factor code to an authenticated User using a JWT
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/two-factor/send#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

==== Request Body

[.api]
[field]#email# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#::
The email to which send Multi-Factor codes. If the [field]#method# is equal to `email`, this is required.

[field]#method# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The type of the MFA method which will be added. The value provided here must be allowed in the Tenant MFA configuration as well.
+
Valid values are:
+
* `email`
* `sms`

[field]#mobilePhone# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#::
The mobile phone to which send Multi-Factor codes. If the [field]#method# is equal to `sms`, this is required.

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/two-factor/send/enable-jwt-request.json[]
----

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

:success_code: 200
:success_message: The request was successful.
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]
:success_code!:
:success_message!:


== Send a Multi-Factor Code When Disabling MFA

You are disabling MFA for a user. You must provide an API key or a valid JWT for the User you are modifying. You are using FusionAuth as your delivery mechanism.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Send a Multi-Factor code to an existing User by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/two-factor/send#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

==== Request Body

[.api]
[field]#methodId# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the MFA method which will be removed.

[field]#userId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The User Id of the User to send a Multi-Factor verification code. This User is expected to already have Multi-Factor enabled.

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/two-factor/send/disable-userId-request.json[]
----

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#jwt-authentication[icon:id-badge[type=fas]] Send a Multi-Factor code to an authenticated User using a JWT
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/two-factor/send#
--

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_x-fusionauth-tenant-id-header-scoped-operation.adoc[]

==== Request Body

[.api]
[field]#methodId# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the MFA method which will be removed.

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/two-factor/send/disable-jwt-request.json[]
----

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

:success_code: 200
:success_message: The request was successful.
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]
:success_code!:
:success_message!:
