site/docs/v1/tech/apis/user-actions.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: User Action APIs
description: APIs for creating, retrieving, updating and deleting user actions
---

== Overview

This page contains the APIs that are used for manager user actions. This does not cover actually actioning users. Instead, this is the CRUD API for manage the user action definitions. Here are the APIs:

* <<Create a User Action>>
* <<Retrieve a User Action>>
* <<Update a User Action>>
* <<Delete a User Action>>
* <<Reactivate a User Action>>


== Create a User Action

This API is used to create an User Action. Specifying an Id on the URI will instruct FusionAuth to use that Id when creating the User Action. Otherwise, FusionAuth will generate an Id for the User Action.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Create a User Action with a randomly generated Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/user-action#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Create a User Action with the provided unique Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/user-action/`{userActionId}`#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#userActionId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to secure random UUID#::
The Id to use for the new User Action. If not specified a secure random UUID will be generated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_user-action-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the information for the User Action that was created.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_user-action-response-body.adoc[]


== Retrieve a User Action

This API is used to retrieve one or all of the configured User Actions. Specifying an Id on the URI will retrieve a single User Action. Leaving off the Id will retrieve all of the User Actions.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Retrieve all of the User Actions
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/user-action#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Retrieve a User Action by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/user-action/`{userActionId}`#
--


==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#userActionId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#::
The Id of the User Action to retrieve.

=== Response

The response for this API contains either a single User Action or all of the User Actions. When you call this API with an Id the response will contain just that User Action. When you call this API without an Id the response will contain all of the User Actions. Both response types are defined below along with an example JSON response.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_user-action-response-body.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_user-actions-response-body.adoc[]


== Update a User Action

This API is used to update an User Action. You must specify the Id of the User Action to update on the URI.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Update a User Action by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/user-action/`{userActionId}`#
--

:api_endpoint: pass:normal[/api/user-action/`{userActionId}`]
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_patch-support.adoc[]

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#userActionId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the User Action to update.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_user-action-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the new information for the User Action that was updated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-put-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_user-action-response-body.adoc[]


== Delete a User Action

This API is used to delete an User Action. You must specify the Id of the User Action on the URI.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Soft delete a User Action. This operation can be reversed by re-activating the User Action.
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/user-action/`{userActionId}`#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Permanently delete a User Action. This operation cannot be reversed.
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/user-action/`{userActionId}&hardDelete=true`#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#userActionId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the User Action to delete.

[field]#hardDelete# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional#::
Whether or not the User Action is soft or hard deleted.

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc[]


== Reactivate a User Action

This API is used to reactivate an inactive User Action. You must specify the Id of the Application on the URI.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Reactivate the User Action
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/user-action/`{userActionId}?reactivate=true`#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#userActionId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the User Action to reactivate.

=== Response

The response for this API contains the information for the User Action that was reactivated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_user-action-response-body.adoc[]

Commit message:

Add interlinking to these two related APIs.

site/docs/v1/tech/apis/user-actions.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: User Action APIs
description: APIs for creating, retrieving, updating and deleting user actions
---

== Overview

This page contains the APIs for managing user actions. This API does not cover actually actioning users. Instead, this is the CRUD API for manage the user action definitions. 

If you want to apply an existing user action to a user, see the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/actioning-users/[Actioning Users API].

Here are the APIs:

* <<Create a User Action>>
* <<Retrieve a User Action>>
* <<Update a User Action>>
* <<Delete a User Action>>
* <<Reactivate a User Action>>


== Create a User Action

This API is used to create an User Action. Specifying an Id on the URI will instruct FusionAuth to use that Id when creating the User Action. Otherwise, FusionAuth will generate an Id for the User Action.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Create a User Action with a randomly generated Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/user-action#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Create a User Action with the provided unique Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/user-action/`{userActionId}`#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#userActionId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to secure random UUID#::
The Id to use for the new User Action. If not specified a secure random UUID will be generated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_user-action-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the information for the User Action that was created.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_user-action-response-body.adoc[]


== Retrieve a User Action

This API is used to retrieve one or all of the configured User Actions. Specifying an Id on the URI will retrieve a single User Action. Leaving off the Id will retrieve all of the User Actions.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Retrieve all of the User Actions
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/user-action#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Retrieve a User Action by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/user-action/`{userActionId}`#
--


==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#userActionId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#::
The Id of the User Action to retrieve.

=== Response

The response for this API contains either a single User Action or all of the User Actions. When you call this API with an Id the response will contain just that User Action. When you call this API without an Id the response will contain all of the User Actions. Both response types are defined below along with an example JSON response.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_user-action-response-body.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_user-actions-response-body.adoc[]


== Update a User Action

This API is used to update an User Action. You must specify the Id of the User Action to update on the URI.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Update a User Action by Id
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/user-action/`{userActionId}`#
--

:api_endpoint: pass:normal[/api/user-action/`{userActionId}`]
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_patch-support.adoc[]

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#userActionId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the User Action to update.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_user-action-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

The response for this API contains the new information for the User Action that was updated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-put-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_user-action-response-body.adoc[]


== Delete a User Action

This API is used to delete an User Action. You must specify the Id of the User Action on the URI.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Soft delete a User Action. This operation can be reversed by re-activating the User Action.
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/user-action/`{userActionId}`#
--

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Permanently delete a User Action. This operation cannot be reversed.
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#DELETE# [uri]#/api/user-action/`{userActionId}&hardDelete=true`#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#userActionId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the User Action to delete.

[field]#hardDelete# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional#::
Whether or not the User Action is soft or hard deleted.

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-delete-response-codes.adoc[]


== Reactivate a User Action

This API is used to reactivate an inactive User Action. You must specify the Id of the Application on the URI.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red,type=far]] Reactivate the User Action
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/user-action/`{userActionId}?reactivate=true`#
--

==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#userActionId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the User Action to reactivate.

=== Response

The response for this API contains the information for the User Action that was reactivated.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_user-action-response-body.adoc[]
