---
layout: blog-post
title: See you at KCDC 2023! 
description: KCDC, the Kansas City Developer Conference, is happening at the end of this week, and FusionAuth will be there.
author: Emily Jansen
image: blogs/kcdc-2023/kcdc-2023-header.png
category: announcement
tags: conference kcdc
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
---

FusionAuth is excited to be attending and sponsoring the Kansas City Developers Conference! This year's event (the 14th annual!) will take place June 21-June 23 at the Kansas City Convention Center, with the bulk of the content happening on Jun 22 and June 23.

<!--more-->

KCDC brings together developers, software engineers, UX designers, product managers, entrepreneurs, and more for a unique opportunity to network and learn from each other. It's community driven and while they accept corporate sponsors, it has that community feel.

As far as content goes, there are more than 180 technical sessions covering topics from architecture to cloud to javascript to human skills to security and UI/UX design. Whew!

FusionAuth team member Dan Moore will be giving a few talks (see more below), but other interestin session include:

* The Infrastructure is Reliable and Other Folk Tales by Tom Wheelr
* How to Talk to Women by Diana Pham
* React: The Most Common Mistakes in 2023 by Cory House

And there are plenty more.

## Meet up with FusionAuth

If you want to meet with the FusionAuth team at KCDC, we’re around and ready to chat. Or at least available to tell you a Chuck Norris joke.

{% include _image.liquid src="/assets/img/blogs/kcdc-2023/where-to-find-us-at-kcdc.png" alt="Where to find the FusionAuth team at KCDC 2023." class="img-fluid" figure=false %}

You can find us in a couple of places:

* **Come by Booth #215:** get a demo of FusionAuth, chat about the intricacies of the Authorization Code grant (yay PKCE!), or sign up for our giveaway drawing.
* **Thursday Session:** Best practices for OAuth and native apps with Dan Moore- 2:30 pm - 3:30 pm
* **Thursday Happy Hour:** Join the FusionAuth crew at P.S. Speakeasy in Hotel Phillips on Thursday from 5:30 - 7 pm. Look for the folks in the **<code>cat /etc/passwd</code>** t-shirts
* **Friday Session:** Your app's front door: authentication architectural patterns with Dan Moore @ 9:45 am - 10:45 am 

And if you want to reach out before hand or during the event:

* Ping [FusionAuth](https://twitter.com/fusionauth) or [Dan](https://twitter.com/mooreds) on Twitter
* Send us a [message asking to chat](/contact).
