site/docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/openid-connect/azure-ad.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Azure AD OpenID Connect
description: Login using Azure AD as an OpenID Connect Identity Provider
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== Configure OpenID Connect with Azure Active Directory

Once you have completed this configuration you may enable an OpenID Connect "Login with Azure AD" button for one or more FusionAuth Applications.  See link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app[Azure - Register An App Quickstart Guide] as an additional reference.

image::identity-providers/azure-openid-connect-login.png[Login with Azure AD,width=1200]

=== Register a New Azure Active Directory Application

You will first need to login to the link:https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/features/azure-portal/[Azure Portal].

Once logged in, navigate to [breadcrumb]#Azure Active Directory -> App Registrations -> New Registration# to create a new Azure Active Directory Application.

image::identity-providers/azure-openid-connect-register-application.png[Register a new Azure AD Application,width=1200]

Here we have configured our application `Redirect URI`.  If FusionAuth is running at `https://local.fusionauth.io`, this value should be `https://local.fusionauth.io/oauth2/callback`.

image::identity-providers/azure-openid-connect-client-id.png[Azure AD Client ID and Tenant ID,width=1200]

Once the application has been created, note the `Application (client) ID` and the `Directory (tenant) ID`.  These will be used respectively as the [field]#Client Id# value and to construct the [field]#Issuer# value in your FusionAuth OpenID Connect Identity Provider configuration.

=== Create a New Azure Active Directory Application Secret

Navigate to [breadcrumb]#Azure Active Directory -> App Registrations -> {Your Application} -> Certificates & secrets -> New client secret# to create a new Azure Active Directory Application Client Secret.

image::identity-providers/azure-openid-connect-client-secret.png[Azure AD Client Secret,width=1200]

Note the `VALUE` of the created client secret.  This will be used as the [field]#Client secret# value in your FusionAuth OpenID Connect Identity Provider configuration.

=== Configure a New FusionAuth OpenID Connect Identity Provider

To create an Azure AD Identity Provider return to FusionAuth and navigate to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> Identity Providers# and click `Add provider` and select `OpenID Connect` from the dialog.

This will take you to the `Add OpenID Connect` panel, and you'll fill out the required fields.

You will need to set [field]#Client authentication method# to `HTTP Basic authentication (client_secret_basic)`.

[field]#Client Id# and [field]#Client secret# values reference the previously noted Azure AD Application's `Application (client) ID`, client secret `VALUE`. The [field]#Redirect URL# is read only and generated for you based upon the URL of FusionAuth, this value should match the one you configured in your Azure application.

Azure AD has implemented a well-known configuration endpoint, FusionAuth will be able to discover the necessary endpoints when you provide the URL `\https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenantId}` to the provider in the `Issuer` field, where `{tenantId}` is the `Directory (tenant) ID` previously noted while creating our Azure AD Application.

You will need to specify `openid` as a [field]#Scope# for your application.

You will need to specify `email` as a [field]#Email claim# for your application.

image::identity-providers/top-of-fusionauth-azure-ad-oidc-config.png[FusionAuth Azure AD IdP Configuration,width=1200]

Scroll down and make sure you enable this Identity Provider for your application. In the following screenshot you will see that we have enabled this login provider for the `Pied Piper` application and enabled `Create registration`.

That's it, now the `Login with Azure AD` button will show up on the login page of our `Pied Piper` application.

image::identity-providers/bottom-of-fusionauth-azure-ad-oidc-config.png[FusionAuth Azure AD IdP Configuration,width=1200]

Commit message:

Added more details.
added lambda, sep top and bottom fusionauth oidc config screens, and the email claim.

site/docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/openid-connect/azure-ad.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Azure AD OpenID Connect
description: Login using Azure AD as an OpenID Connect Identity Provider
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== Configure OpenID Connect with Azure Active Directory

Once you have completed this configuration you may enable an OpenID Connect "Login with Azure AD" button for one or more FusionAuth Applications.  See link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app[Azure - Register An App Quickstart Guide] as an additional reference.

image::identity-providers/azure-openid-connect-login.png[Login with Azure AD,width=1200]

=== Register a New Azure Active Directory Application

You will first need to login to the link:https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/features/azure-portal/[Azure Portal].

Once logged in, navigate to [breadcrumb]#Azure Active Directory -> App Registrations -> New Registration# to create a new Azure Active Directory Application.

image::identity-providers/azure-openid-connect-register-application.png[Register a new Azure AD Application,width=1200]

Here we have configured our application `Redirect URI`.  If FusionAuth is running at `https://local.fusionauth.io`, this value should be `https://local.fusionauth.io/oauth2/callback`.

image::identity-providers/azure-openid-connect-client-id.png[Azure AD Client ID and Tenant ID,width=1200]

Once the application has been created, note the `Application (client) ID` and the `Directory (tenant) ID`.  These will be used respectively as the [field]#Client Id# value and to construct the [field]#Issuer# value in your FusionAuth OpenID Connect Identity Provider configuration.

=== Create a New Azure Active Directory Application Secret

Navigate to [breadcrumb]#Azure Active Directory -> App Registrations -> {Your Application} -> Certificates & secrets -> New client secret# to create a new Azure Active Directory Application Client Secret.

image::identity-providers/azure-openid-connect-client-secret.png[Azure AD Client Secret,width=1200]

Note the `VALUE` of the created client secret.  This will be used as the [field]#Client secret# value in your FusionAuth OpenID Connect Identity Provider configuration.

=== Configure a New FusionAuth OpenID Connect Identity Provider

To create an Azure AD Identity Provider return to FusionAuth and navigate to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> Identity Providers# and click `Add provider` and select `OpenID Connect` from the dialog.

This will take you to the `Add OpenID Connect` panel, and you'll fill out the required fields.

You will need to set [field]#Client authentication method# to `HTTP Basic authentication (client_secret_basic)`.

[field]#Client Id# and [field]#Client secret# values reference the previously noted Azure AD Application's `Application (client) ID`, client secret `VALUE`. The [field]#Redirect URL# is read only and generated for you based upon the URL of FusionAuth, this value should match the one you configured in your Azure application.

Azure AD has implemented a well-known configuration endpoint, FusionAuth will be able to discover the necessary endpoints when you provide the URL `\https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenantId}` to the provider in the `Issuer` field, where `{tenantId}` is the `Directory (tenant) ID` previously noted while creating our Azure AD Application.

You may set a [field]#Reconcile lambda# to map attributes from the JWT provided by Azure AD to the FusionAuth user or registration. This is optional. link:/docs/v1/tech/lambdas/openid-connect-response-reconcile/[Learn more about lambdas].

You will need to specify `openid` as a [field]#Scope# for your application. You will need to specify `email` as a [field]#Email claim# for your application.

image::identity-providers/top-of-fusionauth-azure-ad-oidc-config.png[FusionAuth Azure AD IdP Configuration,width=1200]

Scroll down and make sure you enable this Identity Provider for your application. In the following screenshot you will see that we have enabled this login provider for the `Pied Piper` application and enabled `Create registration`.

image::identity-providers/bottom-of-fusionauth-azure-ad-oidc-config.png[FusionAuth Azure AD IdP Configuration,width=1200,role=top-cropped]

That's it, now the `Login with Azure AD` button will show up on the login page of our `Pied Piper` application.
