site/docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/openid-connect/discord.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Discord OpenID Connect
description: Login using Discord as an OpenID Connect Identity Provider
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== Configure OpenID Connect with Discord

Once you have completed this configuration you may enable an OpenID Connect "Login with Discord" button for one or more FusionAuth Applications. See link:https://discordapp.com/developers/docs/topics/oauth2/[Discord - OAuth2] for an additional reference.

image::discord-openid-connect-login.png[Login with Discord,width=1200,role=shadowed]

=== Register a Discord OAuth2 Application

You will first need to login to link:https://discordapp.com/developers/applications/[Discord].

Once logged in, navigate to link:https://discordapp.com/developers/applications/[https://discordapp.com/developers/applications/] and create a new application.

image::discord-openid-connect-client-id-secret.png[Discord Client ID and Secret,width=1200,role=shadowed]

Once the application has been created, note the `CLIENT ID` and the `CLIENT SECRET`.  These will be used respectively as the [field]#Client Id# value and the [field]#Client secret# value in your FusionAuth OpenID Connect Identity Providers configuration.

Now navigate to [breadcrumb]#Selected App# icon:chevron-right[role=breadcrumb,type=fas] [breadcrumb]#Settings# icon:chevron-right[role=breadcrumb,type=fas] [breadcrumb]#OAuth2# icon:chevron-right[role=breadcrumb,type=fas] in the navigation pane on the left side of the screen to configure OAuth2 for your Discord app.

image::discord-openid-connect-register-application.png[Register a new Discord OAuth Application,width=1200,role=shadowed]

Here we have configured a `REDIRECT` for our application.  If FusionAuth is running at `https://local.fusionauth.io`, this value should be `https://local.fusionauth.io/oauth2/callback`.

=== Configure a New FusionAuth OpenID Connect Identity Provider

To create a Discord Identity Provider return to FusionAuth and  navigate to [breadcrumb]#Settings# icon:chevron-right[role=breadcrumb,type=fas] [breadcrumb]#Identity Providers# and click `Add provider` and select `OpenID Connect` from the dialog.

This will take you to the `Add OpenID Connect` panel, and you'll fill out the required fields.  [field]#Client Id# and [field]#Client secret# values reference the previously noted Discord Application's `CLIENT ID` and `CLIENT SECRET`. The [field]#Redirect URL# is read only and generated for you based upon the URL of FusionAuth, this value should match the one you configured in your Discord application.

Discord has not implemented a well-known configuration endpoint, so you will need to disable the [field]#Discover endpoints# field and specify the endpoints manually.  The values for these fields are:

* `Authorization endpoint` - `https://discordapp.com/api/oauth2/authorize`
* `Token endpoint` - `https://discordapp.com/api/oauth2/token`
* `Userinfo endpoint` - `https://discordapp.com/api/users/@me`

You will need to specify the scopes `identify email` in the [field]#Scope# field for your application.

In the following screenshot you will see that we have enabled this login provider for the `SeeFood` application and enabled [field]#Create registration#.

Discord does not implement OpenID Connect to spec. In order to pull in some additional data for populating the user profile (Discord username, Avatar URL, etc.) you can enable a [field]#Reconcile lambda#.  Reference link:../../lambdas/openid-connect-response-reconcile[this example lambda] to specify your own lambda.  This is optional.

That's it, now the `Login with Discord` button will show up on the login page of our `SeeFood` application.

image::discord-openid-connect-configuration.png[FusionAuth Discord IdP Configuration,width=1200,role=shadowed]

Commit message:

Add `client_secret_post` field to OpenID Connect docs

site/docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/openid-connect/discord.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Discord OpenID Connect
description: Login using Discord as an OpenID Connect Identity Provider
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== Configure OpenID Connect with Discord

Once you have completed this configuration you may enable an OpenID Connect "Login with Discord" button for one or more FusionAuth Applications. See link:https://discordapp.com/developers/docs/topics/oauth2/[Discord - OAuth2] for an additional reference.

image::discord-openid-connect-login.png[Login with Discord,width=1200,role=shadowed]

=== Register a Discord OAuth2 Application

You will first need to login to link:https://discordapp.com/developers/applications/[Discord].

Once logged in, navigate to link:https://discordapp.com/developers/applications/[https://discordapp.com/developers/applications/] and create a new application.

image::discord-openid-connect-client-id-secret.png[Discord Client ID and Secret,width=1200,role=shadowed]

Once the application has been created, note the `CLIENT ID` and the `CLIENT SECRET`.  These will be used respectively as the [field]#Client Id# value and the [field]#Client secret# value in your FusionAuth OpenID Connect Identity Providers configuration.

Now navigate to [breadcrumb]#Selected App# icon:chevron-right[role=breadcrumb,type=fas] [breadcrumb]#Settings# icon:chevron-right[role=breadcrumb,type=fas] [breadcrumb]#OAuth2# icon:chevron-right[role=breadcrumb,type=fas] in the navigation pane on the left side of the screen to configure OAuth2 for your Discord app.

image::discord-openid-connect-register-application.png[Register a new Discord OAuth Application,width=1200,role=shadowed]

Here we have configured a `REDIRECT` for our application.  If FusionAuth is running at `https://local.fusionauth.io`, this value should be `https://local.fusionauth.io/oauth2/callback`.

=== Configure a New FusionAuth OpenID Connect Identity Provider

To create a Discord Identity Provider return to FusionAuth and  navigate to [breadcrumb]#Settings# icon:chevron-right[role=breadcrumb,type=fas] [breadcrumb]#Identity Providers# and click `Add provider` and select `OpenID Connect` from the dialog.

This will take you to the `Add OpenID Connect` panel, and you'll fill out the required fields.  [field]#Client Id# and [field]#Client secret# values reference the previously noted Discord Application's `CLIENT ID` and `CLIENT SECRET`. The [field]#Redirect URL# is read only and generated for you based upon the URL of FusionAuth, this value should match the one you configured in your Discord application.

Discord has not implemented a well-known configuration endpoint, so you will need to disable the [field]#Discover endpoints# field and specify the endpoints manually.  The values for these fields are:

* `Authorization endpoint` - `https://discordapp.com/api/oauth2/authorize`
* `Token endpoint` - `https://discordapp.com/api/oauth2/token`
* `Userinfo endpoint` - `https://discordapp.com/api/users/@me`

You will need to specify the scopes `identify email` in the [field]#Scope# field for your application.

You will need to enable the [field]#Authenticate with client_secret_post# field, as Discord expects the `client_secret` in the request body of the authentication request.

In the following screenshot you will see that we have enabled this login provider for the `SeeFood` application and enabled [field]#Create registration#.

Discord does not implement OpenID Connect to spec. In order to pull in some additional data for populating the user profile (Discord username, Avatar URL, etc.) you can enable a [field]#Reconcile lambda#.  Reference link:../../lambdas/openid-connect-response-reconcile[this example lambda] to specify your own lambda.  This is optional.

That's it, now the `Login with Discord` button will show up on the login page of our `SeeFood` application.

image::discord-openid-connect-configuration.png[FusionAuth Discord IdP Configuration,width=1200,role=shadowed]
