site/docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/samlv2/index.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: SAML v2 Identity Provider
description: Login using a SAML v2 Identity Provider
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== Overview

Adding a Login button for a third-party SAML v2 Identity Provider to FusionAuth is simple. This guide will walk you through the steps necessary to enable a SAML v2 Identity Provider. In this example FusionAuth is the SAML service provider and we are configuring a connection to a SAML Identity Provider which will be the system of record for user data.

* <<Create a SAML v2 Identity Provider>>
* <<CORS Configuration>>

{empty} +

We also provide specific examples for configuring SAML with some providers whose implementation requires unique configuration. If you'd like us to provide additional examples, please open a request on https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-site/issues[GitHub].

* link:/docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/samlv2/adfs/[Configure SAML v2 for Active Directory Federation Services (ADFS)]

{empty} +

Once you have completed this configuration you will be able to enable the SAML v2 login button for one or more FusionAuth Applications. Below is an example login page with a SAML v2 Identity Provider enabled for PiedPiper.

image::identity-providers/login-samlv2.png[SAML v2 Login,width=1200]


== Create a SAML v2 Identity Provider

To create an Identity Provider navigate to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> Identity Providers# and click `Add provider` and select `SAML v2` from the dialog.

This will take you to the `Add SAML v2` panel. Here you will need to fill out the required fields. If you do not know the IdP endpoint of your SAML v2 provider, you will need to contact the identity provider owner to get the URL.

:identity_provider: SAMLv2
:login_message: pass:quotes[That's it, now the `Login with PiedPiper` button will show up on the login page.]
include::docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/_idp_application_configuration.adoc[]
:identity_provider!:
:login_message!:

image::identity-providers/identity-provider-samlv2-add.png[Add SAML v2,width=1200,role=shadowed]


=== Form Fields

[.api]
[field]#Id# [optional]#Optional#::
An optional UUID. When this value is omitted a unique Id will be generated automatically.

[field]#Name# [required]#Required#::
A unique name to identity the identity provider. This name is for display purposes only and it can be modified later if desired.

[field]#IdP endpoint# [required]#Required#::
The URL of the SAML identity providers login page.

[field]#Issuer# [required]#Required#::
The name of your FusionAuth deployment that is configured in the SAML identity provider.

[field]#Use NameId for email# [optional]#Optional#::
If this is enabled, FusionAuth will assume that the `NameID` in the SAML response contains the email address of the user.

[field]#Email claim# [optional]#required# Required::
The name of the email claim returned in the SAML response.
+
When [field]#Use NameId for email# is enabled this field will not be displayed and will not be required.

[field]#Verification key# [required]#Required#::
The public key or certificate that you must import into FusionAuth's KeyMaster. This is the public key provided to you by the identity provider.

[field]#Use POST method# [optional]#Optional#::
When enabled the authentication request will use the HTTP POST binding with the identity provider instead of the default Redirect binding which uses the HTTP GET method.

[field]#Sign requests# [optional]#Optional#::
When enabled authentication requests sent to the Identity Provider will be signed.

[field]#Request signing key# [optional]#Optional#::
The key used to sign the SAML request. Required when [field]#Sign request# is enabled. To create, manage or import a key, navigate to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> Key Master#.

[field]#Canonicalization method# [optional]#Optional#::
The XML signature canonicalization method used when digesting and signing the SAML request. 

=== Options

[api]
[field]#Button text# [required]#Required#::
The text to be displayed in the button on the login form. This value defaults to `Login with SAML` but it may be modified to your preference.

[field]#Button image# [optional]#Optional#::
The image to be displayed in the button on the login form. When this value is omitted a default SAML icon will be displayed on the login button.

[field]#Reconcile lambda# [optional]#Optional#::
A lambda maps custom claims returned from the SAML response into the FusionAuth `User` and `Registration`. To learn more about creating a lambda, view the link:/docs/v1/tech/lambdas/samlv2-response-reconcile/[SAML v2 Reconcile lambda documentation].
+
To configure a lambda, navigate to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> Lambdas#.

[field]#Managed domains# [optional]#Optional#::
You may optionally scope this identity provider to one or more managed domains. For example, if you were to use a SAML v2 identity provider for your employees, you may add your company domain `piedpiper.com` to this field.
+
Adding one or more managed domains for this configuration will cause this provider not to be displayed as a button on your login page. Instead of a button the login form will first ask the user for their email address. If the user's email address matches one of the configured domains the user will then be redirected to this login provider to complete authentication. If the user's email address does not match one of the configured domains, the user will be prompted for a password and they will be authenticated using FusionAuth.
+
These configured domains will be used by the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/#lookup-an-identity-provider[Lookup API].

[field]#Debug# [optional]#Optional#::
Some identity providers are not compliant with the SAML and XML signing specifications. This makes it challenging to get them working with FusionAuth. 
+
If you are running into integration issues, toggle this setting on and FusionAuth will output debugging information into the Event Log during a SAML login. You can find the event log in [breadcrumb]#System -> Event Log#.

== Integration Details

After configuring the Identity Provider, you can view the details to see values that will likely be required by your SAML v2 Identity Provider in order to trust FusionAuth as a relying party. Do so by navigating to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> Identity Providers# 





== CORS Configuration

In order to complete the login request, the SAML v2 Identity Provider will make an HTTP `POST` request to the callback URL in FusionAuth. In order for this request to be allowed through the CORS filter you will need to navigate to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> System -> CORS# and add the SAML IdP origin as an [field]#Allowed Origin# the CORS configuration.

Once you complete your SAML v2 Identity Provider configuration, if your CORS configuration is not yet configured to allow the login request to complete you wil be shown the following warning prompting you to complete the CORS configuration. See link:/docs/v1/tech/reference/cors/[CORS Filter reference] for additional details on modifying the CORS configuration.

image::identity-providers/identity-provider-samlv2-cors-warning.png[SAMLv2 CORS Warning,width=1200,role=shadowed bottom-cropped]

== Troubleshooting

:idp_type_name: SAML
include::docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/_idp-managed-domains-troubleshooting.adoc[]
:idp_type_name!:

Commit message:

Added new images
Also completed the integration details section.

site/docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/samlv2/index.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: SAML v2 Identity Provider
description: Login using a SAML v2 Identity Provider
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== Overview

Adding a Login button for a third-party SAML v2 Identity Provider to FusionAuth is simple. This guide will walk you through the steps necessary to enable a SAML v2 Identity Provider. In this example FusionAuth is the SAML service provider and we are configuring a connection to a SAML Identity Provider which will be the system of record for user data.

* <<Create a SAML v2 Identity Provider>>
* <<CORS Configuration>>

{empty} +

We also provide specific examples for configuring SAML with some providers whose implementation requires unique configuration. If you'd like us to provide additional examples, please open a request on https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-site/issues[GitHub].

* link:/docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/samlv2/adfs/[Configure SAML v2 for Active Directory Federation Services (ADFS)]

{empty} +

Once you have completed this configuration you will be able to enable the SAML v2 login button for one or more FusionAuth Applications. Below is an example login page with a SAML v2 Identity Provider enabled for PiedPiper.

image::identity-providers/login-samlv2.png[SAML v2 Login,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]


== Create a SAML v2 Identity Provider

To create an Identity Provider navigate to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> Identity Providers# and click `Add provider` and select `SAML v2` from the dialog.

This will take you to the `Add SAML v2` panel. Here you will need to fill out the required fields. If you do not know the IdP endpoint of your SAML v2 provider, you will need to contact the identity provider owner to get the URL.

:identity_provider: SAMLv2
:login_message: pass:quotes[That's it, now the `Login with PiedPiper` button will show up on the login page.]
include::docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/_idp_application_configuration.adoc[]
:identity_provider!:
:login_message!:

image::identity-providers/identity-provider-samlv2-add.png[Add SAML v2,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]


=== Form Fields

[.api]
[field]#Id# [optional]#Optional#::
An optional UUID. When this value is omitted a unique Id will be generated automatically.

[field]#Name# [required]#Required#::
A unique name to identity the identity provider. This name is for display purposes only and it can be modified later if desired.

[field]#IdP endpoint# [required]#Required#::
The URL of the SAML identity providers login page.

[field]#Issuer# [required]#Required#::
The name of your FusionAuth deployment that is configured in the SAML identity provider.

[field]#Use NameId for email# [optional]#Optional#::
If this is enabled, FusionAuth will assume that the `NameID` in the SAML response contains the email address of the user.

[field]#Email claim# [optional]#required# Required::
The name of the email claim returned in the SAML response.
+
When [field]#Use NameId for email# is enabled this field will not be displayed and will not be required.

[field]#Verification key# [required]#Required#::
The public key or certificate that you must import into FusionAuth's KeyMaster. This is the public key provided to you by the identity provider.

[field]#Use POST method# [optional]#Optional#::
When enabled the authentication request will use the HTTP POST binding with the identity provider instead of the default Redirect binding which uses the HTTP GET method.

[field]#Sign requests# [optional]#Optional#::
When enabled authentication requests sent to the Identity Provider will be signed.

[field]#Request signing key# [optional]#Optional#::
The key used to sign the SAML request. Required when [field]#Sign request# is enabled. To create, manage or import a key, navigate to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> Key Master#.

[field]#Canonicalization method# [optional]#Optional#::
The XML signature canonicalization method used when digesting and signing the SAML request. Required when [field]#Use POST method# and [field]#Sign request# are enabled.

=== Options

image::identity-providers/identity-provider-samlv2-add.png[Add SAML v2 Options section,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

==== Form Fields

[api]
[field]#Button text# [required]#Required#::
The text to be displayed in the button on the login form. This value defaults to `Login with SAML` but it may be modified to your preference.

[field]#Button image# [optional]#Optional#::
The image to be displayed in the button on the login form. When this value is omitted a default SAML icon will be displayed on the login button.

[field]#Reconcile lambda# [optional]#Optional#::
A lambda maps custom claims returned from the SAML response into the FusionAuth `User` and `Registration`. To learn more about creating a lambda, view the link:/docs/v1/tech/lambdas/samlv2-response-reconcile/[SAML v2 Reconcile lambda documentation].
+
To configure a lambda, navigate to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> Lambdas#.

[field]#Managed domains# [optional]#Optional#::
You may optionally scope this identity provider to one or more managed domains. For example, if you were to use a SAML v2 identity provider for your employees, you may add your company domain `piedpiper.com` to this field.
+
Adding one or more managed domains for this configuration will cause this provider not to be displayed as a button on your login page. Instead of a button the login form will first ask the user for their email address. If the user's email address matches one of the configured domains the user will then be redirected to this login provider to complete authentication. If the user's email address does not match one of the configured domains, the user will be prompted for a password and they will be authenticated using FusionAuth.
+
These configured domains will be used by the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/#lookup-an-identity-provider[Lookup API].

[field]#Debug# [optional]#Optional#::
Some identity providers are not compliant with the SAML and XML signing specifications. This makes it challenging to get them working with FusionAuth. 
+
If you are running into integration issues, toggle this setting on and FusionAuth will output debugging information into the Event Log during a SAML login. You can find the event log in [breadcrumb]#System -> Event Log#.

== Integration Details

After configuring the Identity Provider, you can view the details to see values that will likely be required by your SAML v2 Identity Provider in order to trust FusionAuth as a relying party. Do so by navigating to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> Identity Providers# and click the green magnifying glass on your SAML provider. 

image::identity-providers/identity-provider-samlv2-view-list.png[View the identity provider list,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

When viewing the details, scroll to the [breadcrumb]#SAML v2 Integration details# section. There you will find the needed values to configure an integration with a SAMLv2 IdP.

image::identity-providers/identity-provider-samlv2-view-details.png[View the SAMLv2 identity provider details,width=1200]


== CORS Configuration

In order to complete the login request, the SAML v2 Identity Provider will make an HTTP `POST` request to the callback URL in FusionAuth. In order for this request to be allowed through the CORS filter you will need to navigate to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> System -> CORS# and add the SAML IdP origin as an [field]#Allowed Origin# the CORS configuration.

Once you complete your SAML v2 Identity Provider configuration, if your CORS configuration is not yet configured to allow the login request to complete you wil be shown the following warning prompting you to complete the CORS configuration. See link:/docs/v1/tech/reference/cors/[CORS Filter reference] for additional details on modifying the CORS configuration.

image::identity-providers/identity-provider-samlv2-cors-warning.png[SAMLv2 CORS Warning,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

== Troubleshooting

:idp_type_name: SAML
include::docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/_idp-managed-domains-troubleshooting.adoc[]
:idp_type_name!:
