docs/v1/tech/apis/_application-response-body.adoc, before:

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Response Body for a single Application
|===
|[field]#application.id# [type]#[UUID]#
|The Id of the Application.

|[field]#application.active# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Whether or not the Application is active.

|[field]#application.authenticationTokenConfiguration.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Whether or not Users can have Authentication Tokens associated with this Application.

|[field]#application.cleanSpeakConfiguration.applicationIds# [type]#[Array<UUID>]#
|An array of UUIDs that map to the CleanSpeak applications for this Application. It is possible that a single Application in FusionAuth might have multiple Applications in CleanSpeak. For example, a FusionAuth Application for a game might have one CleanSpeak Application for usernames and another Application for chat.

This property is used when CleanSpeak sends user action notifications to FusionAuth (when users are disciplined for example). FusionAuth will translate the CleanSpeak ids to FusionAuth ids and then apply the user action.

|[field]#application.cleanSpeakConfiguration.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]#
|True if CleanSpeak integration is enabled. This setting is global and is not modifiable using this API.

|[field]#application.cleanSpeakConfiguration.usernameModeration.applicationId# [type]#[UUID]#
|The Id of the CleanSpeak application that usernames are sent to for moderation.

|[field]#application.cleanSpeakConfiguration.usernameModeration.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]#
|True if CleanSpeak username moderation is enabled.

|[field]#application.data# [type]#[Object]#
|An object that can hold any information about the Application that should be persisted.

|[field]#application.jwtConfiguration.algorithm# [type]#[String]#
|
include::_jwt_algorithm.adoc[]

|[field]#application.jwtConfiguration.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Indicates if this application is using the JWT configuration defined here or the global JWT configuration defined by the System Configuration. If this is `false` the signing algorithm configured in the System Configuration will be used. If `true` the signing algorithm defined in this application will be used.

|[field]#application.jwtConfiguration.privateKey# [type]#[String]#
|The private key used when an `RSA` signing algorithm has been selected. The private key will be used to sign the JWT. This key will be returned in a PEM encoded format.

|[field]#application.jwtConfiguration.publicKey# [type]#[String]#
|The public key used when an `RSA` signing algorithms has been selected. The public key will be used to verify JWTs signed with the private key. This key will be returned in a PEM encoded format.

|[field]#application.jwtConfiguration.secret# [type]#[String]#
|The secret used when an `HMAC` based signing algorithm has been selected. This secret is used to sign and verify JWTs.

|[field]#application.jwtConfiguration.timeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]#
|The length of time in seconds the JWT will live before it is expired and no longer valid.

|[field]#application.name# [type]#[String]#
|The name of the Application.

|[field]#application.oauthConfiguration.authorizedOriginURLs# [type]#[Array<String>]#
|An array of URLs that are the authorized origins for FusionAuth OAuth.

|[field]#application.oauthConfiguration.authorizedRedirectURLs# [type]#[Array<String>]#
|An array of URLs that are the authorized redirect URLs for FusionAuth OAuth.

|[field]#application.oauthConfiguration.clientId# [type]#[String]#
|The OAuth client Id of the Application.

|[field]#application.oauthConfiguration.clientSecret# [type]#[String]#
|The OAuth client secret.

|[field]#application.oauthConfiguration.logoutURL# [type]#[String]#
|The logout URL for the Application. FusionAuth will redirect to this URL after the user logs out of OAuth.

|[field]#application.verificationEmailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]#
|The Id of the Email Template that is used to send the Registration Verification emails to users.

|[field]#application.verifyRegistration# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Whether or not registrations to this Application may be verified.

|[field]#application.roles# [type]#[Array]#
|An array of Role objects.

|[field]#application.roles``[x]``.description# [type]#[String]#
|A description of the role.

|[field]#application.roles``[x]``.id# [type]#[UUID]#
|The Id of the Role.

|[field]#application.roles``[x]``.name# [type]#[String]#
|The name of the Role.

|[field]#application.roles``[x]``.isDefault# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Whether or not the Role is a default role. A default role is automatically assigned to a user during registration if no roles are provided.

|[field]#application.roles``[x]``.isSuperRole# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Whether or not the Role is a considered to be a super user role. This is a marker to indicate that it supersedes all other roles. FusionAuth will attempt to enforce this contract when using the web UI, it is not enforced programmatically when using the API.
|===

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON for a Single Application
----
include::../../../src/json/applications/response.json[]
----

Commit message:

Add to Application, add missing jwtConfiguration to the SystemConfiguration example JSON

docs/v1/tech/apis/_application-response-body.adoc, after:

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Response Body for a single Application
|===
|[field]#application.id# [type]#[UUID]#
|The Id of the Application.

|[field]#application.active# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Whether or not the Application is active.

|[field]#application.authenticationTokenConfiguration.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Whether or not Users can have Authentication Tokens associated with this Application.

|[field]#application.cleanSpeakConfiguration.applicationIds# [type]#[Array<UUID>]#
|An array of UUIDs that map to the CleanSpeak applications for this Application. It is possible that a single Application in FusionAuth might have multiple Applications in CleanSpeak. For example, a FusionAuth Application for a game might have one CleanSpeak Application for usernames and another Application for chat.

This property is used when CleanSpeak sends user action notifications to FusionAuth (when users are disciplined for example). FusionAuth will translate the CleanSpeak ids to FusionAuth ids and then apply the user action.

|[field]#application.cleanSpeakConfiguration.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]#
|True if CleanSpeak integration is enabled. This setting is global and is not modifiable using this API.

|[field]#application.cleanSpeakConfiguration.usernameModeration.applicationId# [type]#[UUID]#
|The Id of the CleanSpeak application that usernames are sent to for moderation.

|[field]#application.cleanSpeakConfiguration.usernameModeration.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]#
|True if CleanSpeak username moderation is enabled.

|[field]#application.data# [type]#[Object]#
|An object that can hold any information about the Application that should be persisted.

|[field]#application.jwtConfiguration.algorithm# [type]#[String]#
|
include::_jwt_algorithm.adoc[]

|[field]#application.jwtConfiguration.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Indicates if this application is using the JWT configuration defined here or the global JWT configuration defined by the System Configuration. If this is `false` the signing algorithm configured in the System Configuration will be used. If `true` the signing algorithm defined in this application will be used.

|[field]#application.jwtConfiguration.privateKey# [type]#[String]#
|The private key used when an `RSA` signing algorithm has been selected. The private key will be used to sign the JWT. This key will be returned in a PEM encoded format.

|[field]#application.jwtConfiguration.publicKey# [type]#[String]#
|The public key used when an `RSA` signing algorithms has been selected. The public key will be used to verify JWTs signed with the private key. This key will be returned in a PEM encoded format.

|[field]#application.jwtConfiguration.refreshTokenTimeToLiveInMinutes# [type]#[Integer]# [since]#Available Since 1.2.0#
|The length of time in minutes the JWT refresh token will live before it is expired and is not able to be exchanged for a JWT.

|[field]#application.jwtConfiguration.secret# [type]#[String]#
|The secret used when an `HMAC` based signing algorithm has been selected. This secret is used to sign and verify JWTs.

|[field]#application.jwtConfiguration.timeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]#
|The length of time in seconds the JWT will live before it is expired and no longer valid.

|[field]#application.name# [type]#[String]#
|The name of the Application.

|[field]#application.oauthConfiguration.authorizedOriginURLs# [type]#[Array<String>]#
|An array of URLs that are the authorized origins for FusionAuth OAuth.

|[field]#application.oauthConfiguration.authorizedRedirectURLs# [type]#[Array<String>]#
|An array of URLs that are the authorized redirect URLs for FusionAuth OAuth.

|[field]#application.oauthConfiguration.clientId# [type]#[String]#
|The OAuth client Id of the Application.

|[field]#application.oauthConfiguration.clientSecret# [type]#[String]#
|The OAuth client secret.

|[field]#application.oauthConfiguration.logoutURL# [type]#[String]#
|The logout URL for the Application. FusionAuth will redirect to this URL after the user logs out of OAuth.

|[field]#application.verificationEmailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]#
|The Id of the Email Template that is used to send the Registration Verification emails to users.

|[field]#application.verifyRegistration# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Whether or not registrations to this Application may be verified.

|[field]#application.roles# [type]#[Array]#
|An array of Role objects.

|[field]#application.roles``[x]``.description# [type]#[String]#
|A description of the role.

|[field]#application.roles``[x]``.id# [type]#[UUID]#
|The Id of the Role.

|[field]#application.roles``[x]``.name# [type]#[String]#
|The name of the Role.

|[field]#application.roles``[x]``.isDefault# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Whether or not the Role is a default role. A default role is automatically assigned to a user during registration if no roles are provided.

|[field]#application.roles``[x]``.isSuperRole# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Whether or not the Role is a considered to be a super user role. This is a marker to indicate that it supersedes all other roles. FusionAuth will attempt to enforce this contract when using the web UI, it is not enforced programmatically when using the API.
|===

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON for a Single Application
----
include::../../../src/json/applications/response.json[]
----
