docs/v1/tech/apis/_application-oauth-configuration-response-body.adoc, before:

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Response Body
|===
|[field]#httpSessionMaxInactiveInterval# [type]#Integer#
|The time in seconds until an inactive session will be invalidated. Used when creating a new session in the FusionAuth Front End.

|[field]#logoutURL# [type]#String#
|The logout redirect URL when sending the user's browser to the `/oauth2/logout` URI of the FusionAuth Front End. This value is only
used when a logout URL is not defined in your Application.

|[field]#oauthConfiguration.authorizedRedirectURLs# [type]#[Array<String>]#
|An array of URLs that are the authorized redirect URLs for FusionAuth OAuth.

|[field]#oauthConfiguration.clientId# [type]#[String]#
|The OAuth client Id of the Application.

|[field]#application.oauthConfiguration.clientSecret# [type]#[String]#
|The OAuth client secret.
This field will only be provided when the request was authenticated using an API key.

|[field]#oauthConfiguration.logoutURL# [type]#[String]#
|The logout URL for the Application. FusionAuth will redirect to this URL after the user logs out of OAuth.
|===

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/applications/oauth-configuration/response.json[]
----

Commit message:

Added docs for new Application OAuth 2.0 configuration options (requireClientAuthentication and generateRefreshToken) and docs for Token endpoint header.

docs/v1/tech/apis/_application-oauth-configuration-response-body.adoc, after:

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Response Body
|===
|[field]#httpSessionMaxInactiveInterval# [type]#Integer#
|The time in seconds until an inactive session will be invalidated. Used when creating a new session in the FusionAuth Front End.

|[field]#logoutURL# [type]#String#
|The logout redirect URL when sending the user's browser to the `/oauth2/logout` URI of the FusionAuth Front End. This value is only
used when a logout URL is not defined in your Application.

|[field]#oauthConfiguration.authorizedRedirectURLs# [type]#[Array<String>]#
|An array of URLs that are the authorized redirect URLs for FusionAuth OAuth.

|[field]#oauthConfiguration.clientId# [type]#[String]#
|The OAuth client Id of the Application.

|[field]#application.oauthConfiguration.clientSecret# [type]#[String]#
|The OAuth client secret.
This field will only be provided when the request was authenticated using an API key.

|[field]#application.oauthConfiguration.generateRefreshTokens# [type]#[boolean]# [since]#Available Since 1.3.0#
|Determines if the OAuth 2.0 Token endpoint will generate a refresh token or not. This flag needs to be true, the scope needs to include `offline_access` and a device identifier needs to be supplied for FusionAuth to generate a refresh token.

|[field]#oauthConfiguration.logoutURL# [type]#[String]#
|The logout URL for the Application. FusionAuth will redirect to this URL after the user logs out of OAuth.

|[field]#application.oauthConfiguration.requireClientAuthentication# [type]#[boolean]# [since]#Available Since 1.3.0#
|Determines if the OAuth 2.0 Token endpoint requires client authentication. If this is enabled, the client must pass in the `client_id` and `client_secret` using Basic Authorization where the `client_id` is the username and `client_secret` is the password.
|===

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/applications/oauth-configuration/response.json[]
----
