docs/v1/tech/apis/_login-response-codes.adoc, before:

[cols="1,9a"]
.Response Codes
|===
|Code |Description

|200
|The authentication was successful. The response will contain the User object that was authenticated.

|202
|The user was authenticated successfully. The user is not registered for the application specified by `applicationId` on the request.
The response will contain the User object that was authenticated.

|203
|The user was authenticated successfully. The user is required to change their password, the response will contain the `changePasswordId` to be used
on the link::users#change-a-user-s-password[Change Password] API.

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/login/login-change-password-response.json[]

----

|212
|The user's email address has not yet been verified. The response will contain the User object that was authenticated.

|242
|The user was authenticated successfully. The user has two factor authentication enabled, the response will contain the `twoFactorId` to be used
on the <<Complete Two Factor Authentication>>.

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/login/login-two-factor-response.json[]
----

|400
|The request was invalid and/or malformed. The response will contain an link:errors[Errors] JSON Object with the specific errors.

|404
|The user was not found or the password was incorrect. The response will be empty.

|409
|The user is currently in an action that has prevented login. The response will contain the actions that prevented login.

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/login/login-prevented-response.json[]
----

|410
|The user has expired. The response will be empty.

|500
|There was an internal error. A stack trace is provided and logged in the FusionAuth log files. The response will be empty.

|503
|The search index is not available or encountered an exception so the request cannot be completed. The response will contain a JSON body.
|===

Commit message:

login API auth is optional

docs/v1/tech/apis/_login-response-codes.adoc, after:

[cols="1,9a"]
.Response Codes
|===
|Code |Description

|200
|The authentication was successful. The response will contain the User object that was authenticated.

|202
|The user was authenticated successfully. The user is not registered for the application specified by `applicationId` on the request.
The response will contain the User object that was authenticated.

|203
|The user was authenticated successfully. The user is required to change their password, the response will contain the `changePasswordId` to be used
on the link::users#change-a-user-s-password[Change Password] API.

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/login/login-change-password-response.json[]

----

|212
|The user's email address has not yet been verified. The response will contain the User object that was authenticated.

|242
|The user was authenticated successfully. The user has two factor authentication enabled, the response will contain the `twoFactorId` to be used
on the <<Complete Two Factor Authentication>>.

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/login/login-two-factor-response.json[]
----

|400
|The request was invalid and/or malformed. The response will contain an link:errors[Errors] JSON Object with the specific errors.

ifdef::auth_optional[]
|401
|You did not supply a valid Authorization header. The header was omitted or your API key was not valid. The response will be empty. See link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication[Authentication].

By default, this API will require authentication when called with an `applicationId`.

Authentication may be disabled per Application, see `application.loginConfiguration.requireAuthentication` in the Application API or the Security tab in the Application configuration. Prior to version `1.5.0` this API never require an API key.
endif::[]

|404
|The user was not found or the password was incorrect. The response will be empty.

|409
|The user is currently in an action that has prevented login. The response will contain the actions that prevented login.

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/login/login-prevented-response.json[]
----

|410
|The user has expired. The response will be empty.

|500
|There was an internal error. A stack trace is provided and logged in the FusionAuth log files. The response will be empty.

|503
|The search index is not available or encountered an exception so the request cannot be completed. The response will contain a JSON body.
|===
