docs/v1/tech/apis/_system-configuration-response-body.adoc, before:

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Response Body
|===
|[field]#systemConfiguration.cookieEncryptionIV# [type]#[String]#
|The Base64 encoded initialization vector used to encrypt saved request cookies for FusionAuth. This value has been auto-generated and may not be modified.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.cookieEncryptionKey# [type]#[String]#
|The Base64 encoded encryption key used to encrypt saved request cookies for FusionAuth. This value has been auto-generated and may not be modified.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Indicates that the SMTP email configuration is available for use by Passport.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.host# [type]#[String]#
|The host name of the SMTP server that Passport will use.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.password# [type]#[String]#
|An optional password Passport will use to authenticate with the SMTP server.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.port# [type]#[Integer]#
|The port of the SMTP server that Passport will use.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.security# [type]#String#
|The type of security protocol Passport will use when connecting to the SMTP server. The possible values are:

* `NONE` - no security will be used. All communications will be sent plaintext.
* `SSL` - SSL will be used to connect to the SMTP server. This protocol is not recommended unless it is the only one your SMTP server supports.
* `TLS` - TLS will be used to connect to the SMTP server. This is the preferred protocol for all SMTP servers.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.username# [type]#[String]#
|An optional username Passport will to authenticate with the SMTP server.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.eventConfiguration.events# [type]#[Object]#
|A mapping of the configuration for each event type that Passport sends. The event types that are the keys into this Object are:

include::_event-types.adoc[]

|[field]#systemConfiguration.eventConfiguration.events``[type]``.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Whether or not Passport should send these types of events to any configured Webhooks.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.eventConfiguration.events``[type]``.transactionType# [type]#String#
|The transaction type that Passport uses when sending these types of events to any configured Webhooks. The transaction types are:

include::_transaction-types.adoc[]

|[field]#systemConfiguration.externalIdentifierConfiguration.authorizationGrantIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]#
|The time in seconds until a OAuth authorization code in no longer valid to be exchanged for an access token. This is essentially the time allowed between the start
of an Authorization request during the Authorization code grant and when you request an access token using this authorization code on the Token endpoint.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.externalIdentifierConfiguration.changePasswordIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]#
|The time in seconds until a change password Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Change Password API.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.externalIdentifierConfiguration.emailVerificationIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]#
|The time in seconds until a email verification Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Verify Email API.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.externalIdentifierConfiguration.registrationVerificationIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]#
|The time in seconds until a registration verification Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Verify Registration API.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.externalIdentifierConfiguration.setupPasswordIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]#
|The time in seconds until a setup password Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Change Password API.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.externalIdentifierConfiguration.twoFactorIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]#
|The time in seconds until a two factor Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Two Factor Login API.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.externalIdentifierConfiguration.twoFactorTrustIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]#
|The time in seconds until an issued Two Factor trust Id is no longer valid and the User will be required to complete Two Factor authentication
during the next authentication attempt.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.actionDuration# [type]#[Long]#
|The duration of the User Action. This value along with the `actionDurationUnit` will be used to set the duration of the User Action.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.actionDurationUnit# [type]#[String]#
|
include::_expiry_unit.adoc[]

|[field]#systemConfiguration.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.resetCountInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]#
|The length of time in seconds before the failed authentication count will be reset.

For example, if `tooManyAttempts` is set to `5` and you fail to authenticate `4` times in a row, waiting for the duration specified here will cause your fifth attempt to start back at `1`.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.tooManyAttempts# [type]#[Integer]#
|The number of failed attempts considered to be too many. Once this threshold is reached the specified User Action will be applied to the user for the duration specified.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.failedAuthenticationUserActionId# [type]#[UUID]#
|The Id of the User Action that is applied when the threshold is reached for too many failed authentication attempts.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.forgotEmailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]#
|The Id of the Email Template that is used when a user is sent a forgot password email.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.httpSessionMaxInactiveInterval# [type]#[Integer]#
|The time in seconds until an inactive session will be invalidated. Used when creating a new session in the Passport Front End.

|[field]#application.jwtConfiguration.algorithm# [type]#[String]#
|
include::_jwt_algorithm.adoc[]

|[field]#systemConfiguration.jwtConfiguration.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]#
|This value will always be true. The JWT configuration may not be disabled for the System Configuration.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.jwtConfiguration.issuer# [type]#[String]#
|The name or issuer of the JWT, this is generally something unique such as a fully qualified domain name.

For example, `www.inversoft.com`.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.jwtConfiguration.privateKey# [type]#[String]#
|The private key used when an `RSA` signing algorithm has been selected. The private key will be used to sign the JWT. This key will be returned in a PEM encoded format.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.jwtConfiguration.publicKey# [type]#[String]#
|The public key used when an `RSA` signing algorithms has been selected. The public key will be used to verify JWTs signed with the private key. This key will be returned in a PEM encoded format.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.jwtConfiguration.refreshTokenTimeToLiveInMinutes# [type]#[Integer]#
|The length of time in minutes the JWT refresh token will live before it is expired and is not able to be exchanged for a JWT.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.jwtConfiguration.secret# [type]#[String]#
|The secret used when an `HMAC` based signing algorithm has been selected. This secret is used to sign and verify JWTs.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.jwtConfiguration.timeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]#
|The length of time in seconds the JWT will live before it is expired. This value is used to calculate the `exp` (expiration) identity claim.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.logoutURL# [type]#[String]#
|The logout redirect URL when sending the user's browser to the `/oauth2/logout` URI of the Passport Front End. This value is only used when a logout URL is not defined in your Application.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.maximumPasswordAge.days# [type]#[Integer]#
|The password maximum age in days. The number of days after which Passport will require a user to change their password.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.maximumPasswordAge.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Indicates that the maximum password age is enabled and being enforced.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.minimumPasswordAge.seconds# [type]#[Integer]#
|The password minimum age in seconds. When enabled Passport will not allow a password to be changed until it reaches this minimum age.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.minimumPasswordAge.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Indicates that the minimum password age is enabled and being enforced.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordEncryptionConfiguration.encryptionScheme# [type]#[String]#
|The selected default encryption scheme.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordEncryptionConfiguration.encryptionSchemeFactor# [type]#[String]#
|The factor used by the password encryption scheme. Generally this will be used as an iteration count to generate the hash. The actual use of this value is up to the `PasswordEncryptor` implementation.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordEncryptionConfiguration.modifyEncryptionSchemeOnLogin# [type]#[Boolean]#
|When enabled a user's hash configuration will be modified to match these configured settings.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.maxLength# [type]#[Integer]#
|The maximum number of characters that are allowed for user passwords.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.minLength# [type]#[Integer]#
|The minimum number of characters that are required for user passwords.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.rememberPreviousPasswords.count# [type]#[Integer]#
|The number of previous passwords that should be remembered so they are not re-used by the User.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.rememberPreviousPasswords.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Indicates that the remember previous password validation is enabled and being enforced.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.requireMixedCase# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Indicates that passwords require an uppercase and lowercase character to be valid.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.requireNonAlpha# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Indicates that passwords require a non-alphanumeric character to be valid.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.requireNumber# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Indicates that passwords require at least one number to be valid.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.reportTimezone# [type]#[String]#
|The timezone that all reports will be generated in. Since reports are usually rolled up hourly, this timezone will be used for demarcating the hours. This must be a valid `java.util.time.ZoneId` String. (see https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/time/ZoneId.html)

|[field]#systemConfiguration.setPasswordEmailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]#
|The Id of the Email Template that is used when a user had their account created for them and they must set their password manually and they are sent an email to set their password.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.uiConfiguration.headerColor# [type]#[String]#
|A hexadecimal color to override the default menu color in the user interface.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.uiConfiguration.loginTheme.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Indicates that the login theme is enabled and will be used to style the login pages.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.uiConfiguration.loginTheme.stylesheet# [type]#[String]#
|A stylesheet used to style the login page and other templates such as forgot password, and verify email.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.uiConfiguration.logoURL# [type]#[String]#
|A URL of a logo to override the default Passport logo in the user interface.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.uiConfiguration.menuFontColor# [type]#[String]#
|A hexadecimal color to override the default menu font color in the user interface.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.verificationEmailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]#
|The Id of the Email Template that is used to send the verification emails to users. These emails are used to verify that a user's email address is valid. If the `verifyEmail` field is `true` this field is required.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.verifyEmail# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Whether or not user's email addresses are verified when the register with your application.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.verifyEmailWhenChanged# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Whether or not user's email addresses are verified when the user changes them.
|===

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/system-configuration/response.json[]
----

Commit message:

Replaced old names with FusionAuth

docs/v1/tech/apis/_system-configuration-response-body.adoc, after:

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Response Body
|===
|[field]#systemConfiguration.cookieEncryptionIV# [type]#[String]#
|The Base64 encoded initialization vector used to encrypt saved request cookies for FusionAuth. This value has been auto-generated and may not be modified.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.cookieEncryptionKey# [type]#[String]#
|The Base64 encoded encryption key used to encrypt saved request cookies for FusionAuth. This value has been auto-generated and may not be modified.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Indicates that the SMTP email configuration is available for use by FusionAuth.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.host# [type]#[String]#
|The host name of the SMTP server that FusionAuth will use.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.password# [type]#[String]#
|An optional password FusionAuth will use to authenticate with the SMTP server.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.port# [type]#[Integer]#
|The port of the SMTP server that FusionAuth will use.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.security# [type]#String#
|The type of security protocol FusionAuth will use when connecting to the SMTP server. The possible values are:

* `NONE` - no security will be used. All communications will be sent plaintext.
* `SSL` - SSL will be used to connect to the SMTP server. This protocol is not recommended unless it is the only one your SMTP server supports.
* `TLS` - TLS will be used to connect to the SMTP server. This is the preferred protocol for all SMTP servers.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.username# [type]#[String]#
|An optional username FusionAuth will to authenticate with the SMTP server.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.eventConfiguration.events# [type]#[Object]#
|A mapping of the configuration for each event type that FusionAuth sends. The event types that are the keys into this Object are:

include::_event-types.adoc[]

|[field]#systemConfiguration.eventConfiguration.events``[type]``.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Whether or not FusionAuth should send these types of events to any configured Webhooks.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.eventConfiguration.events``[type]``.transactionType# [type]#String#
|The transaction type that FusionAuth uses when sending these types of events to any configured Webhooks. The transaction types are:

include::_transaction-types.adoc[]

|[field]#systemConfiguration.externalIdentifierConfiguration.authorizationGrantIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]#
|The time in seconds until a OAuth authorization code in no longer valid to be exchanged for an access token. This is essentially the time allowed between the start
of an Authorization request during the Authorization code grant and when you request an access token using this authorization code on the Token endpoint.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.externalIdentifierConfiguration.changePasswordIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]#
|The time in seconds until a change password Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Change Password API.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.externalIdentifierConfiguration.emailVerificationIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]#
|The time in seconds until a email verification Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Verify Email API.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.externalIdentifierConfiguration.registrationVerificationIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]#
|The time in seconds until a registration verification Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Verify Registration API.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.externalIdentifierConfiguration.setupPasswordIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]#
|The time in seconds until a setup password Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Change Password API.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.externalIdentifierConfiguration.twoFactorIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]#
|The time in seconds until a two factor Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Two Factor Login API.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.externalIdentifierConfiguration.twoFactorTrustIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]#
|The time in seconds until an issued Two Factor trust Id is no longer valid and the User will be required to complete Two Factor authentication
during the next authentication attempt.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.actionDuration# [type]#[Long]#
|The duration of the User Action. This value along with the `actionDurationUnit` will be used to set the duration of the User Action.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.actionDurationUnit# [type]#[String]#
|
include::_expiry_unit.adoc[]

|[field]#systemConfiguration.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.resetCountInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]#
|The length of time in seconds before the failed authentication count will be reset.

For example, if `tooManyAttempts` is set to `5` and you fail to authenticate `4` times in a row, waiting for the duration specified here will cause your fifth attempt to start back at `1`.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.tooManyAttempts# [type]#[Integer]#
|The number of failed attempts considered to be too many. Once this threshold is reached the specified User Action will be applied to the user for the duration specified.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.failedAuthenticationUserActionId# [type]#[UUID]#
|The Id of the User Action that is applied when the threshold is reached for too many failed authentication attempts.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.forgotEmailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]#
|The Id of the Email Template that is used when a user is sent a forgot password email.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.httpSessionMaxInactiveInterval# [type]#[Integer]#
|The time in seconds until an inactive session will be invalidated. Used when creating a new session in the FusionAuth OAuth front-end.

|[field]#application.jwtConfiguration.algorithm# [type]#[String]#
|
include::_jwt_algorithm.adoc[]

|[field]#systemConfiguration.jwtConfiguration.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]#
|This value will always be true. The JWT configuration may not be disabled for the System Configuration.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.jwtConfiguration.issuer# [type]#[String]#
|The name or issuer of the JWT, this is generally something unique such as a fully qualified domain name.

For example, `fusionauth.io`.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.jwtConfiguration.privateKey# [type]#[String]#
|The private key used when an `RSA` signing algorithm has been selected. The private key will be used to sign the JWT. This key will be returned in a PEM encoded format.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.jwtConfiguration.publicKey# [type]#[String]#
|The public key used when an `RSA` signing algorithms has been selected. The public key will be used to verify JWTs signed with the private key. This key will be returned in a PEM encoded format.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.jwtConfiguration.refreshTokenTimeToLiveInMinutes# [type]#[Integer]#
|The length of time in minutes the JWT refresh token will live before it is expired and is not able to be exchanged for a JWT.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.jwtConfiguration.secret# [type]#[String]#
|The secret used when an `HMAC` based signing algorithm has been selected. This secret is used to sign and verify JWTs.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.jwtConfiguration.timeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]#
|The length of time in seconds the JWT will live before it is expired. This value is used to calculate the `exp` (expiration) identity claim.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.logoutURL# [type]#[String]#
|The logout redirect URL when sending the user's browser to the `/oauth2/logout` URI of the FusionAuth Front End. This value is only used when a logout URL is not defined in your Application.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.maximumPasswordAge.days# [type]#[Integer]#
|The password maximum age in days. The number of days after which FusionAuth will require a user to change their password.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.maximumPasswordAge.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Indicates that the maximum password age is enabled and being enforced.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.minimumPasswordAge.seconds# [type]#[Integer]#
|The password minimum age in seconds. When enabled FusionAuth will not allow a password to be changed until it reaches this minimum age.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.minimumPasswordAge.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Indicates that the minimum password age is enabled and being enforced.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordEncryptionConfiguration.encryptionScheme# [type]#[String]#
|The selected default encryption scheme.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordEncryptionConfiguration.encryptionSchemeFactor# [type]#[String]#
|The factor used by the password encryption scheme. Generally this will be used as an iteration count to generate the hash. The actual use of this value is up to the `PasswordEncryptor` implementation.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordEncryptionConfiguration.modifyEncryptionSchemeOnLogin# [type]#[Boolean]#
|When enabled a user's hash configuration will be modified to match these configured settings.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.maxLength# [type]#[Integer]#
|The maximum number of characters that are allowed for user passwords.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.minLength# [type]#[Integer]#
|The minimum number of characters that are required for user passwords.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.rememberPreviousPasswords.count# [type]#[Integer]#
|The number of previous passwords that should be remembered so they are not re-used by the User.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.rememberPreviousPasswords.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Indicates that the remember previous password validation is enabled and being enforced.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.requireMixedCase# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Indicates that passwords require an uppercase and lowercase character to be valid.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.requireNonAlpha# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Indicates that passwords require a non-alphanumeric character to be valid.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.requireNumber# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Indicates that passwords require at least one number to be valid.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.reportTimezone# [type]#[String]#
|The timezone that all reports will be generated in. Since reports are usually rolled up hourly, this timezone will be used for demarcating the hours. This must be a valid `java.util.time.ZoneId` String. (see https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/time/ZoneId.html)

|[field]#systemConfiguration.setPasswordEmailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]#
|The Id of the Email Template that is used when a user had their account created for them and they must set their password manually and they are sent an email to set their password.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.uiConfiguration.headerColor# [type]#[String]#
|A hexadecimal color to override the default menu color in the user interface.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.uiConfiguration.loginTheme.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Indicates that the login theme is enabled and will be used to style the login pages.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.uiConfiguration.loginTheme.stylesheet# [type]#[String]#
|A stylesheet used to style the login page and other templates such as forgot password, and verify email.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.uiConfiguration.logoURL# [type]#[String]#
|A URL of a logo to override the default FusionAuth logo in the user interface.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.uiConfiguration.menuFontColor# [type]#[String]#
|A hexadecimal color to override the default menu font color in the user interface.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.verificationEmailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]#
|The Id of the Email Template that is used to send the verification emails to users. These emails are used to verify that a user's email address is valid. If the `verifyEmail` field is `true` this field is required.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.verifyEmail# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Whether or not user's email addresses are verified when the register with your application.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.verifyEmailWhenChanged# [type]#[Boolean]#
|Whether or not user's email addresses are verified when the user changes them.
|===

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/system-configuration/response.json[]
----
