docs/v1/tech/apis/_system-configuration-request-body.adoc, before:

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Body
|===
|[field]#systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.enabled# [optional]#Optional# [type]#[Boolean]# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Indicates that the SMTP email configuration is available for use by Passport.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.host# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The host name of the SMTP server that Passport will use. Required when `systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.enabled` is set to `true`.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.password# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|An optional password Passport will use to authenticate with the SMTP server.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.port# [type]#[Integer]# [optional]#Optional#
|The port of the SMTP server that Passport will use. Required when `systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.enabled` is set to `true`.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.security# [type]#String# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to NONE#
|The type of security protocol Passport will use when connecting to the SMTP server. The possible values are:

* `NONE` - no security will be used. All communications will be sent plaintext.
* `SSL` - SSL will be used to connect to the SMTP server. This protocol is not recommended unless it is the only one your SMTP server supports.
* `TLS` - TLS will be used to connect to the SMTP server. This is the preferred protocol for all SMTP servers.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.username# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|An optional username Passport will to authenticate with the SMTP server.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.eventConfiguration.events# [type]#[Object]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to {}#
|A mapping of the configuration for each event type that Passport sends. The event types that are the keys into this Object are:

include::_event-types.adoc[]

|[field]#systemConfiguration.eventConfiguration.events``[type]``.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Whether or not Passport should send these types of events to any configured Webhooks.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.eventConfiguration.events``[type]``.transactionType# [type]#String# [optional]#Optional#
|The transaction type that Passport uses when sending these types of events to any configured Webhooks. The transaction types are:

include::_transaction-types.adoc[]

|[field]#systemConfiguration.externalIdentifierConfiguration.authorizationGrantIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required#
|The time in seconds until a OAuth authorization code in no longer valid to be exchanged for an access token. This is essentially the time allowed between the start
of an Authorization request during the Authorization code grant and when you request an access token using this authorization code on the Token endpoint.

Value must be greater than 0 and less than or equal to 600.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.externalIdentifierConfiguration.changePasswordIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required#
|The time in seconds until a change password Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Change Password API. Value must be greater than 0.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.externalIdentifierConfiguration.emailVerificationIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required#
|The time in seconds until a email verification Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Verify Email API. Value must be greater than 0.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.externalIdentifierConfiguration.registrationVerificationIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required#
|The time in seconds until a registration verification Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Verify Registration API. Value must be greater than 0.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.externalIdentifierConfiguration.setupPasswordIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required#
|The time in seconds until a setup password Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Change Password API. Value must be greater than 0.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.externalIdentifierConfiguration.twoFactorIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required#
|The time in seconds until a two factor Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Two Factor Login API. Value must be greater than 0.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.externalIdentifierConfiguration.twoFactorTrustIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required#
|The time in seconds until an issued Two Factor trust Id is no longer valid and the User will be required to complete Two Factor authentication
during the next authentication attempt. Value must be greater than 0.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.actionDuration# [type]#[Long]#
|The duration of the User Action. This value along with the `actionDurationUnit` will be used to set the duration of the User Action.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.actionDurationUnit# [type]#[String]#
|
include::_expiry_unit.adoc[]

|[field]#systemConfiguration.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.resetCountInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]#
|The length of time in seconds before the failed authentication count will be reset.

For example, if `tooManyAttempts` is set to `5` and you fail to authenticate `4` times in a row, waiting for the duration specified here will cause your fifth attempt to start back at `1`.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.tooManyAttempts# [type]#[Integer]#
|The number of failed attempts considered to be too many. Once this threshold is reached the specified User Action will be applied to the user for the duration specified.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.failedAuthenticationUserActionId# [type]#[UUID]#
|The Id of the User Action that is applied when the threshold is reached for too many failed authentication attempts.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.forgotEmailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The Id of the Email Template that is used when a user is sent a forgot password email.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.httpSessionMaxInactiveInterval# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required# [default]#defaults to `60 minutes`#
|The time in seconds until an inactive session will be invalidated. Used when creating a new session in the Passport Front End.

|[field]#application.jwtConfiguration.algorithm# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#
|
include::_jwt_algorithm.adoc[]

|[field]#systemConfiguration.jwtConfiguration.issuer# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#
|The name or issuer of the JWT, this is generally something unique such as a fully qualified domain name.

For example, `www.inversoft.com`.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.jwtConfiguration.privateKey# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The private key used when an `RSA` signing algorithm has been selected. The private key will be used to sign the JWT. This key is expected to be in a PEM encoded format. Required when `algorithm` is set to an RSA based value.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.jwtConfiguration.publicKey# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The public key used when an `RSA` signing algorithms has been selected. The public key will be used to verify JWTs signed with the private key. This key is expected to be in a PEM encoded format. Required when `algorithm` is set to an RSA based value.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.jwtConfiguration.refreshTokenTimeToLiveInMinutes# [required]#Required# [type]#[Integer]#
|The length of time in minutes the JWT refresh token will live before it is expired and is not able to be exchanged for a JWT.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.jwtConfiguration.secret# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The secret used when an `HMAC` based signing algorithm has been selected. This secret is used to sign and verify JWTs. Required when `algorithm` is set to an HMAC based value.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.jwtConfiguration.timeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required#
|The length of time in seconds the JWT will live before it is expired. This value is used to calculate the `exp` (expiration) identity claim.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.logoutURL# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The logout redirect URL when sending the user's browser to the `/oauth2/logout` URI of the Passport Front End. This value is only used when a logout URL is not defined in your Application.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.maximumPasswordAge.days# [type]#[Integer]# [optional]#Optional#
|The password maximum age in days. The number of days after which Passport will require a user to change their password. Required when `systemConfiguration.maximumPasswordAge.enabled` is set to `true`.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.maximumPasswordAge.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional#
|Indicates that the maximum password age is enabled and being enforced.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.minimumPasswordAge.seconds# [type]#[Integer]# [optional]#Optional#
|The password minimum age in seconds. When enabled Passport will not allow a password to be changed until it reaches this minimum age. Required when `systemConfiguration.minimumPasswordAge.enabled` is set to `true`.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.minimumPasswordAge.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional#
|Indicates that the minimum password age is enabled and being enforced.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordEncryptionConfiguration.encryptionScheme# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The default method for encrypting the User's password. The following encryptors are provided with Passport:

* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-md5[salted-md5]`
* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-sha-256[salted-sha256]`
* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-hmac-sha-256[salted-hmac-sha256]`
* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-pbkdf2-hmac-sha-256[salted-pbkdf2-hmac-sha256]`
* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-bcrypt[bcrypt]`

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordEncryptionConfiguration.encryptionSchemeFactor# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The factor used by the password encryption scheme. If not provided, the `PasswordEncryptor` provides a default value. Generally this will be used as an iteration count to generate the hash. The actual use of this value is up to the `PasswordEncryptor` implementation.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordEncryptionConfiguration.modifyEncryptionSchemeOnLogin# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional#
|When enabled a user's hash configuration will be modified to match these configured settings. This can be useful to increase a password hash strength over time or upgrade imported users to a more secure encryption scheme after an initial import.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.maxLength# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required#
|The maximum number of characters that are allowed for user passwords.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.minLength# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required#
|The minimum number of characters that are required for user passwords.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.rememberPreviousPasswords.count# [type]#[Integer]# [optional]#Optional#
|The number of previous passwords that should be remembered so they are not re-used by the User. Required when `systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.rememberPreviousPasswords.count` is set to `true`.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.rememberPreviousPasswords.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional#
|Indicates that the remember previous password validation is enabled and being enforced.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.requireMixedCase# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Indicates that passwords require an uppercase and lowercase character to be valid.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.requireNonAlpha# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Indicates that passwords require a non-alphanumeric character to be valid.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.requireNumber# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Indicates that passwords require at least one number to be valid.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.reportTimezone# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#
|The timezone that all reports will be generated in. Since reports are usually rolled up hourly, this timezone will be used for demarcating the hours. This must be a valid `java.util.time.ZoneId` String. (see https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/time/ZoneId.html)

|[field]#systemConfiguration.setPasswordEmailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#
|The Id of the Email Template that is used when a user had their account created for them and they must set their password manually and they are sent an email to set their password.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.uiConfiguration.headerColor# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|A hexadecimal color to override the default menu color in the user interface.

[block-quote]#Example: `000000` would set the menu color to black.#

|[field]#systemConfiguration.uiConfiguration.loginTheme.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Indicates that the login theme is enabled and will be used to style the login pages.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.uiConfiguration.loginTheme.stylesheet# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|A stylesheet used to style the login page and other templates such as forgot password, and verify email.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.uiConfiguration.logoURL# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|A URL of a logo to override the default Passport logo in the user interface.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.uiConfiguration.menuFontColor# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|A hexadecimal color to override the default menu font color in the user interface.

[block-quote]#Example: `FFFFFF` would set the menu font color to white.#

|[field]#systemConfiguration.verificationEmailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#
|The If of the Email Template that is used to send the verification emails to users. These emails are used to verify that a user's email address is valid. If the `verifyEmail` field is `true` this field is required.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.verifyEmail# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Whether or not user's email addresses are verified when the register with your application.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.verifyEmailWhenChanged# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Whether or not user's email addresses are verified when the user changes them.
|===

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/system-configuration/request.json[]
----

Commit message:

Replaced old names with FusionAuth

docs/v1/tech/apis/_system-configuration-request-body.adoc, after:

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Body
|===
|[field]#systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.enabled# [optional]#Optional# [type]#[Boolean]# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Indicates that the SMTP email configuration is available for use by FusionAuth.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.host# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The host name of the SMTP server that FusionAuth will use. Required when `systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.enabled` is set to `true`.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.password# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|An optional password FusionAuth will use to authenticate with the SMTP server.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.port# [type]#[Integer]# [optional]#Optional#
|The port of the SMTP server that FusionAuth will use. Required when `systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.enabled` is set to `true`.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.security# [type]#String# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to NONE#
|The type of security protocol FusionAuth will use when connecting to the SMTP server. The possible values are:

* `NONE` - no security will be used. All communications will be sent plaintext.
* `SSL` - SSL will be used to connect to the SMTP server. This protocol is not recommended unless it is the only one your SMTP server supports.
* `TLS` - TLS will be used to connect to the SMTP server. This is the preferred protocol for all SMTP servers.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.emailConfiguration.username# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|An optional username FusionAuth will to authenticate with the SMTP server.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.eventConfiguration.events# [type]#[Object]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to {}#
|A mapping of the configuration for each event type that FusionAuth sends. The event types that are the keys into this Object are:

include::_event-types.adoc[]

|[field]#systemConfiguration.eventConfiguration.events``[type]``.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Whether or not FusionAuth should send these types of events to any configured Webhooks.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.eventConfiguration.events``[type]``.transactionType# [type]#String# [optional]#Optional#
|The transaction type that FusionAuth uses when sending these types of events to any configured Webhooks. The transaction types are:

include::_transaction-types.adoc[]

|[field]#systemConfiguration.externalIdentifierConfiguration.authorizationGrantIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required#
|The time in seconds until a OAuth authorization code in no longer valid to be exchanged for an access token. This is essentially the time allowed between the start
of an Authorization request during the Authorization code grant and when you request an access token using this authorization code on the Token endpoint.

Value must be greater than 0 and less than or equal to 600.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.externalIdentifierConfiguration.changePasswordIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required#
|The time in seconds until a change password Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Change Password API. Value must be greater than 0.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.externalIdentifierConfiguration.emailVerificationIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required#
|The time in seconds until a email verification Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Verify Email API. Value must be greater than 0.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.externalIdentifierConfiguration.registrationVerificationIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required#
|The time in seconds until a registration verification Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Verify Registration API. Value must be greater than 0.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.externalIdentifierConfiguration.setupPasswordIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required#
|The time in seconds until a setup password Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Change Password API. Value must be greater than 0.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.externalIdentifierConfiguration.twoFactorIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required#
|The time in seconds until a two factor Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Two Factor Login API. Value must be greater than 0.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.externalIdentifierConfiguration.twoFactorTrustIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required#
|The time in seconds until an issued Two Factor trust Id is no longer valid and the User will be required to complete Two Factor authentication
during the next authentication attempt. Value must be greater than 0.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.actionDuration# [type]#[Long]#
|The duration of the User Action. This value along with the `actionDurationUnit` will be used to set the duration of the User Action.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.actionDurationUnit# [type]#[String]#
|
include::_expiry_unit.adoc[]

|[field]#systemConfiguration.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.resetCountInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]#
|The length of time in seconds before the failed authentication count will be reset.

For example, if `tooManyAttempts` is set to `5` and you fail to authenticate `4` times in a row, waiting for the duration specified here will cause your fifth attempt to start back at `1`.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.tooManyAttempts# [type]#[Integer]#
|The number of failed attempts considered to be too many. Once this threshold is reached the specified User Action will be applied to the user for the duration specified.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.failedAuthenticationUserActionId# [type]#[UUID]#
|The Id of the User Action that is applied when the threshold is reached for too many failed authentication attempts.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.forgotEmailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The Id of the Email Template that is used when a user is sent a forgot password email.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.httpSessionMaxInactiveInterval# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required# [default]#defaults to `60 minutes`#
|The time in seconds until an inactive session will be invalidated. Used when creating a new session in the FusionAuth Front End.

|[field]#application.jwtConfiguration.algorithm# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#
|
include::_jwt_algorithm.adoc[]

|[field]#systemConfiguration.jwtConfiguration.issuer# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#
|The name or issuer of the JWT, this is generally something unique such as a fully qualified domain name.

For example, `fusionauth.io`.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.jwtConfiguration.privateKey# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The private key used when an `RSA` signing algorithm has been selected. The private key will be used to sign the JWT. This key is expected to be in a PEM encoded format. Required when `algorithm` is set to an RSA based value.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.jwtConfiguration.publicKey# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The public key used when an `RSA` signing algorithms has been selected. The public key will be used to verify JWTs signed with the private key. This key is expected to be in a PEM encoded format. Required when `algorithm` is set to an RSA based value.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.jwtConfiguration.refreshTokenTimeToLiveInMinutes# [required]#Required# [type]#[Integer]#
|The length of time in minutes the JWT refresh token will live before it is expired and is not able to be exchanged for a JWT.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.jwtConfiguration.secret# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The secret used when an `HMAC` based signing algorithm has been selected. This secret is used to sign and verify JWTs. Required when `algorithm` is set to an HMAC based value.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.jwtConfiguration.timeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required#
|The length of time in seconds the JWT will live before it is expired. This value is used to calculate the `exp` (expiration) identity claim.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.logoutURL# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The logout redirect URL when sending the user's browser to the `/oauth2/logout` URI of the FusionAuth Front End. This value is only used when a logout URL is not defined in your Application.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.maximumPasswordAge.days# [type]#[Integer]# [optional]#Optional#
|The password maximum age in days. The number of days after which FusionAuth will require a user to change their password. Required when `systemConfiguration.maximumPasswordAge.enabled` is set to `true`.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.maximumPasswordAge.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional#
|Indicates that the maximum password age is enabled and being enforced.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.minimumPasswordAge.seconds# [type]#[Integer]# [optional]#Optional#
|The password minimum age in seconds. When enabled FusionAuth will not allow a password to be changed until it reaches this minimum age. Required when `systemConfiguration.minimumPasswordAge.enabled` is set to `true`.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.minimumPasswordAge.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional#
|Indicates that the minimum password age is enabled and being enforced.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordEncryptionConfiguration.encryptionScheme# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The default method for encrypting the User's password. The following encryptors are provided with FusionAuth:

* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-md5[salted-md5]`
* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-sha-256[salted-sha256]`
* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-hmac-sha-256[salted-hmac-sha256]`
* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-pbkdf2-hmac-sha-256[salted-pbkdf2-hmac-sha256]`
* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-bcrypt[bcrypt]`

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordEncryptionConfiguration.encryptionSchemeFactor# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The factor used by the password encryption scheme. If not provided, the `PasswordEncryptor` provides a default value. Generally this will be used as an iteration count to generate the hash. The actual use of this value is up to the `PasswordEncryptor` implementation.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordEncryptionConfiguration.modifyEncryptionSchemeOnLogin# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional#
|When enabled a user's hash configuration will be modified to match these configured settings. This can be useful to increase a password hash strength over time or upgrade imported users to a more secure encryption scheme after an initial import.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.maxLength# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required#
|The maximum number of characters that are allowed for user passwords.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.minLength# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required#
|The minimum number of characters that are required for user passwords.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.rememberPreviousPasswords.count# [type]#[Integer]# [optional]#Optional#
|The number of previous passwords that should be remembered so they are not re-used by the User. Required when `systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.rememberPreviousPasswords.count` is set to `true`.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.rememberPreviousPasswords.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional#
|Indicates that the remember previous password validation is enabled and being enforced.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.requireMixedCase# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Indicates that passwords require an uppercase and lowercase character to be valid.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.requireNonAlpha# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Indicates that passwords require a non-alphanumeric character to be valid.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.passwordValidationRules.requireNumber# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Indicates that passwords require at least one number to be valid.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.reportTimezone# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#
|The timezone that all reports will be generated in. Since reports are usually rolled up hourly, this timezone will be used for demarcating the hours. This must be a valid `java.util.time.ZoneId` String. (see https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/time/ZoneId.html)

|[field]#systemConfiguration.setPasswordEmailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#
|The Id of the Email Template that is used when a user had their account created for them and they must set their password manually and they are sent an email to set their password.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.uiConfiguration.headerColor# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|A hexadecimal color to override the default menu color in the user interface.

[block-quote]#Example: `000000` would set the menu color to black.#

|[field]#systemConfiguration.uiConfiguration.loginTheme.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Indicates that the login theme is enabled and will be used to style the login pages.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.uiConfiguration.loginTheme.stylesheet# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|A stylesheet used to style the login page and other templates such as forgot password, and verify email.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.uiConfiguration.logoURL# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|A URL of a logo to override the default FusionAuth logo in the user interface.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.uiConfiguration.menuFontColor# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|A hexadecimal color to override the default menu font color in the user interface.

[block-quote]#Example: `FFFFFF` would set the menu font color to white.#

|[field]#systemConfiguration.verificationEmailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#
|The If of the Email Template that is used to send the verification emails to users. These emails are used to verify that a user's email address is valid. If the `verifyEmail` field is `true` this field is required.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.verifyEmail# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Whether or not user's email addresses are verified when the register with your application.

|[field]#systemConfiguration.verifyEmailWhenChanged# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Whether or not user's email addresses are verified when the user changes them.
|===

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/system-configuration/request.json[]
----
