docs/v1/tech/apis/_tenants-response-body.adoc, before:

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Response Body for all Tenants

|===
|[field]#tenants# [type]#[Array]#
|The list of Tenant objects.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.data# [type]#[Object]#
|An object that can hold any information about the Tenant that should be persisted.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.emailConfiguration.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [deprecated]#Deprecated#
|When this value is set to true the email configuration provided by this tenant will take precedence over the configuration by the System Configuration.

&nbsp;
[deprecated]#Removed in version 1.8.0# In version 1.8.0 and beyond, a Tenant's email configuration is enabled upon configuration.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.emailConfiguration.forgotPasswordEmailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#
|The Id of the Email Template that is used when a user is sent a forgot password email.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.emailConfiguration.host# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The host name of the SMTP server that FusionAuth will use.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.emailConfiguration.password# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|An optional password FusionAuth will use to authenticate with the SMTP server.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.emailConfiguration.port# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The port of the SMTP server that FusionAuth will use.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.emailConfiguration.setPasswordEmailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#
|The Id of the Email Template that is used when a user had their account created for them and they must set their password manually and they are sent an email to set their password.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.emailConfiguration.security# [type]#String# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to NONE# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The type of security protocol FusionAuth will use when connecting to the SMTP server. The possible values are:

* `NONE` - no security will be used. All communications will be sent plaintext.
* `SSL` - SSL will be used to connect to the SMTP server. This protocol is not recommended unless it is the only one your SMTP server supports.
* `TLS` - TLS will be used to connect to the SMTP server. This is the preferred protocol for all SMTP servers.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.emailConfiguration.username# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|An optional username FusionAuth will to authenticate with the SMTP server.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.emailConfiguration.verificationEmailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#
|The If of the Email Template that is used to send the verification emails to users. These emails are used to verify that a user's email address is valid. If the `verifyEmail` field is `true` this field is required.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.emailConfiguration.verifyEmail# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Whether the user's email addresses are verified when the registers with your application.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.emailConfiguration.verifyEmailWhenChanged# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Whether the user's email addresses are verified when the user changes them.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.actionDuration# [type]#[Long]# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The duration of the User Action. This value along with the `actionDurationUnit` will be used to set the duration of the User Action.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.actionDurationUnit# [type]#[String]# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|
include::_expiry_unit.adoc[]

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.resetCountInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The length of time in seconds before the failed authentication count will be reset.

For example, if `tooManyAttempts` is set to `5` and you fail to authenticate `4` times in a row, waiting for the duration specified here will cause your fifth attempt to start back at `1`.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.tooManyAttempts# [type]#[Integer]# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The number of failed attempts considered to be too many. Once this threshold is reached the specified User Action will be applied to the user for the duration specified.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.userActionId# [type]#[UUID]# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The Id of the User Action that is applied when the threshold is reached for too many failed authentication attempts.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.id# [type]#[UUID]#
|The unique Id of the Tenant.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.name# [type]#[String]#
|The name of the Tenant.
|===

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/tenants/responses.json[]
----

Commit message:

Deprecate password age fields on System, move to Tenant

docs/v1/tech/apis/_tenants-response-body.adoc, after:

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Response Body for all Tenants

|===
|[field]#tenants# [type]#[Array]#
|The list of Tenant objects.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.data# [type]#[Object]#
|An object that can hold any information about the Tenant that should be persisted.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.emailConfiguration.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [deprecated]#Deprecated#
|When this value is set to true the email configuration provided by this tenant will take precedence over the configuration by the System Configuration.

&nbsp;
[deprecated]#Removed in version 1.8.0# In version 1.8.0 and beyond, a Tenant's email configuration is enabled upon configuration.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.emailConfiguration.forgotPasswordEmailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#
|The Id of the Email Template that is used when a user is sent a forgot password email.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.emailConfiguration.host# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The host name of the SMTP server that FusionAuth will use.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.emailConfiguration.password# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|An optional password FusionAuth will use to authenticate with the SMTP server.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.emailConfiguration.port# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The port of the SMTP server that FusionAuth will use.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.emailConfiguration.setPasswordEmailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#
|The Id of the Email Template that is used when a user had their account created for them and they must set their password manually and they are sent an email to set their password.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.emailConfiguration.security# [type]#String# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to NONE# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The type of security protocol FusionAuth will use when connecting to the SMTP server. The possible values are:

* `NONE` - no security will be used. All communications will be sent plaintext.
* `SSL` - SSL will be used to connect to the SMTP server. This protocol is not recommended unless it is the only one your SMTP server supports.
* `TLS` - TLS will be used to connect to the SMTP server. This is the preferred protocol for all SMTP servers.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.emailConfiguration.username# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|An optional username FusionAuth will to authenticate with the SMTP server.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.emailConfiguration.verificationEmailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#
|The If of the Email Template that is used to send the verification emails to users. These emails are used to verify that a user's email address is valid. If the `verifyEmail` field is `true` this field is required.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.emailConfiguration.verifyEmail# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Whether the user's email addresses are verified when the registers with your application.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.emailConfiguration.verifyEmailWhenChanged# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Whether the user's email addresses are verified when the user changes them.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.actionDuration# [type]#[Long]# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The duration of the User Action. This value along with the `actionDurationUnit` will be used to set the duration of the User Action.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.actionDurationUnit# [type]#[String]# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|
include::_expiry_unit.adoc[]

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.resetCountInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The length of time in seconds before the failed authentication count will be reset.

For example, if `tooManyAttempts` is set to `5` and you fail to authenticate `4` times in a row, waiting for the duration specified here will cause your fifth attempt to start back at `1`.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.tooManyAttempts# [type]#[Integer]# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The number of failed attempts considered to be too many. Once this threshold is reached the specified User Action will be applied to the user for the duration specified.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.userActionId# [type]#[UUID]# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The Id of the User Action that is applied when the threshold is reached for too many failed authentication attempts.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.id# [type]#[UUID]#
|The unique Id of the Tenant.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.maximumPasswordAge.days# [type]#[Integer]# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The password maximum age in days. The number of days after which FusionAuth will require a user to change their password.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.maximumPasswordAge.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|Indicates that the maximum password age is enabled and being enforced.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.minimumPasswordAge.seconds# [type]#[Integer]# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The password minimum age in seconds. When enabled FusionAuth will not allow a password to be changed until it reaches this minimum age.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.minimumPasswordAge.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|Indicates that the minimum password age is enabled and being enforced.

|[field]#tenants``[x]``.name# [type]#[String]#
|The name of the Tenant.
|===

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/tenants/responses.json[]
----
