docs/v1/tech/apis/_tenant-request-body.adoc, before:

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Body
|===
|[field]#tenant.data# [type]#[Object]# [optional]#Optional#
|An object that can hold any information about the Tenant that should be persisted.

|[field]#tenant.emailConfiguration.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [deprecated]#Deprecated#
|When this value is set to true the email configuration provided by this tenant will take precedence over the configuration by the System Configuration.

&nbsp;
[deprecated]#Removed in version 1.8.0# In version 1.8.0 and beyond, a Tenant's email configuration is enabled upon configuration.

|[field]#tenant.emailConfiguration.forgotPasswordEmailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#
|The Id of the Email Template that is used when a user is sent a forgot password email.

|[field]#tenant.emailConfiguration.host# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The host name of the SMTP server that FusionAuth will use.

|[field]#tenant.emailConfiguration.password# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|An optional password FusionAuth will use to authenticate with the SMTP server.

|[field]#tenant.emailConfiguration.port# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The port of the SMTP server that FusionAuth will use.

|[field]#tenant.emailConfiguration.setPasswordEmailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#
|The Id of the Email Template that is used when a user had their account created for them and they must set their password manually and they are sent an email to set their password.

|[field]#tenant.emailConfiguration.security# [type]#String# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to NONE# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The type of security protocol FusionAuth will use when connecting to the SMTP server. The possible values are:

* `NONE` - no security will be used. All communications will be sent plaintext.
* `SSL` - SSL will be used to connect to the SMTP server. This protocol is not recommended unless it is the only one your SMTP server supports.
* `TLS` - TLS will be used to connect to the SMTP server. This is the preferred protocol for all SMTP servers.

|[field]#tenant.emailConfiguration.username# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|An optional username FusionAuth will to authenticate with the SMTP server.

|[field]#tenant.emailConfiguration.verificationEmailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#
|The If of the Email Template that is used to send the verification emails to users. These emails are used to verify that a user's email address is valid. If the `verifyEmail` field is `true` this field is required.

|[field]#tenant.emailConfiguration.verifyEmail# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Whether the user's email addresses are verified when the registers with your application.

|[field]#tenant.emailConfiguration.verifyEmailWhenChanged# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Whether the user's email addresses are verified when the user changes them.

|[field]#tenant.externalIdentifierConfiguration.authorizationGrantIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The time in seconds until a OAuth authorization code in no longer valid to be exchanged for an access token. This is essentially the time allowed between the start
of an Authorization request during the Authorization code grant and when you request an access token using this authorization code on the Token endpoint.

Value must be greater than 0 and less than or equal to 600.

|[field]#tenant.externalIdentifierConfiguration.changePasswordIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The time in seconds until a change password Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Change Password API. Value must be greater than 0.

|[field]#tenant.externalIdentifierConfiguration.emailVerificationIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The time in seconds until a email verification Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Verify Email API. Value must be greater than 0.

|[field]#tenant.externalIdentifierConfiguration.oneTimePasswordTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The time in seconds until a One Time Password is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Login API. Value must be greater than 0.

|[field]#tenant.externalIdentifierConfiguration.passwordlessLoginTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The time in seconds until a passwordless code is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Passwordless API. Value must be greater than 0.

|[field]#tenant.externalIdentifierConfiguration.registrationVerificationIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The time in seconds until a registration verification Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Verify Registration API. Value must be greater than 0.

|[field]#tenant.externalIdentifierConfiguration.setupPasswordIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The time in seconds until a setup password Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Change Password API. Value must be greater than 0.

|[field]#tenant.externalIdentifierConfiguration.twoFactorIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The time in seconds until a two factor Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Two Factor Login API. Value must be greater than 0.

|[field]#tenant.externalIdentifierConfiguration.twoFactorTrustIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The time in seconds until an issued Two Factor trust Id is no longer valid and the User will be required to complete Two Factor authentication
during the next authentication attempt. Value must be greater than 0.

|[field]#tenant.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.actionDuration# [type]#[Long]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `3`# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The duration of the User Action. This value along with the `actionDurationUnit` will be used to set the duration of the User Action.

|[field]#tenant.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.actionDurationUnit# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `"MINUTES"`# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|
include::_expiry_unit.adoc[]

|[field]#tenant.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.resetCountInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `60`# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The length of time in seconds before the failed authentication count will be reset.

For example, if `tooManyAttempts` is set to `5` and you fail to authenticate `4` times in a row, waiting for the duration specified here will cause your fifth attempt to start back at `1`.

|[field]#tenant.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.tooManyAttempts# [type]#[Integer]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `5`# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The number of failed attempts considered to be too many. Once this threshold is reached the specified User Action will be applied to the user for the duration specified.

|[field]#tenant.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.userActionId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The Id of the User Action that is applied when the threshold is reached for too many failed authentication attempts.

|[field]#tenant.name# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#
|The name of the Tenant.
|===

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/tenants/request.json[]
----

Commit message:

Deprecate password age fields on System, move to Tenant

docs/v1/tech/apis/_tenant-request-body.adoc, after:

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Body
|===
|[field]#tenant.data# [type]#[Object]# [optional]#Optional#
|An object that can hold any information about the Tenant that should be persisted.

|[field]#tenant.emailConfiguration.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [deprecated]#Deprecated#
|When this value is set to true the email configuration provided by this tenant will take precedence over the configuration by the System Configuration.

&nbsp;
[deprecated]#Removed in version 1.8.0# In version 1.8.0 and beyond, a Tenant's email configuration is enabled upon configuration.

|[field]#tenant.emailConfiguration.forgotPasswordEmailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#
|The Id of the Email Template that is used when a user is sent a forgot password email.

|[field]#tenant.emailConfiguration.host# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The host name of the SMTP server that FusionAuth will use.

|[field]#tenant.emailConfiguration.password# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|An optional password FusionAuth will use to authenticate with the SMTP server.

|[field]#tenant.emailConfiguration.port# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The port of the SMTP server that FusionAuth will use.

|[field]#tenant.emailConfiguration.setPasswordEmailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#
|The Id of the Email Template that is used when a user had their account created for them and they must set their password manually and they are sent an email to set their password.

|[field]#tenant.emailConfiguration.security# [type]#String# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to NONE# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The type of security protocol FusionAuth will use when connecting to the SMTP server. The possible values are:

* `NONE` - no security will be used. All communications will be sent plaintext.
* `SSL` - SSL will be used to connect to the SMTP server. This protocol is not recommended unless it is the only one your SMTP server supports.
* `TLS` - TLS will be used to connect to the SMTP server. This is the preferred protocol for all SMTP servers.

|[field]#tenant.emailConfiguration.username# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|An optional username FusionAuth will to authenticate with the SMTP server.

|[field]#tenant.emailConfiguration.verificationEmailTemplateId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#
|The If of the Email Template that is used to send the verification emails to users. These emails are used to verify that a user's email address is valid. If the `verifyEmail` field is `true` this field is required.

|[field]#tenant.emailConfiguration.verifyEmail# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Whether the user's email addresses are verified when the registers with your application.

|[field]#tenant.emailConfiguration.verifyEmailWhenChanged# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Whether the user's email addresses are verified when the user changes them.

|[field]#tenant.externalIdentifierConfiguration.authorizationGrantIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The time in seconds until a OAuth authorization code in no longer valid to be exchanged for an access token. This is essentially the time allowed between the start
of an Authorization request during the Authorization code grant and when you request an access token using this authorization code on the Token endpoint.

Value must be greater than 0 and less than or equal to 600.

|[field]#tenant.externalIdentifierConfiguration.changePasswordIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The time in seconds until a change password Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Change Password API. Value must be greater than 0.

|[field]#tenant.externalIdentifierConfiguration.emailVerificationIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The time in seconds until a email verification Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Verify Email API. Value must be greater than 0.

|[field]#tenant.externalIdentifierConfiguration.oneTimePasswordTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The time in seconds until a One Time Password is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Login API. Value must be greater than 0.

|[field]#tenant.externalIdentifierConfiguration.passwordlessLoginTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The time in seconds until a passwordless code is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Passwordless API. Value must be greater than 0.

|[field]#tenant.externalIdentifierConfiguration.registrationVerificationIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The time in seconds until a registration verification Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Verify Registration API. Value must be greater than 0.

|[field]#tenant.externalIdentifierConfiguration.setupPasswordIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The time in seconds until a setup password Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Change Password API. Value must be greater than 0.

|[field]#tenant.externalIdentifierConfiguration.twoFactorIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The time in seconds until a two factor Id is no longer valid and cannot be used by the Two Factor Login API. Value must be greater than 0.

|[field]#tenant.externalIdentifierConfiguration.twoFactorTrustIdTimeToLiveInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [required]#Required# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The time in seconds until an issued Two Factor trust Id is no longer valid and the User will be required to complete Two Factor authentication
during the next authentication attempt. Value must be greater than 0.

|[field]#tenant.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.actionDuration# [type]#[Long]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `3`# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The duration of the User Action. This value along with the `actionDurationUnit` will be used to set the duration of the User Action.

|[field]#tenant.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.actionDurationUnit# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `"MINUTES"`# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|
include::_expiry_unit.adoc[]

|[field]#tenant.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.resetCountInSeconds# [type]#[Integer]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `60`# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The length of time in seconds before the failed authentication count will be reset.

For example, if `tooManyAttempts` is set to `5` and you fail to authenticate `4` times in a row, waiting for the duration specified here will cause your fifth attempt to start back at `1`.

|[field]#tenant.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.tooManyAttempts# [type]#[Integer]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `5`# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The number of failed attempts considered to be too many. Once this threshold is reached the specified User Action will be applied to the user for the duration specified.

|[field]#tenant.failedAuthenticationConfiguration.userActionId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The Id of the User Action that is applied when the threshold is reached for too many failed authentication attempts.

|[field]#tenant.maximumPasswordAge.days# [type]#[Integer]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `180`# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The password maximum age in days. The number of days after which FusionAuth will require a user to change their password. Required when `systemConfiguration.maximumPasswordAge.enabled` is set to `true`.

|[field]#tenant.maximumPasswordAge.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|Indicates that the maximum password age is enabled and being enforced.

|[field]#tenant.minimumPasswordAge.seconds# [type]#[Integer]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `30`# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|The password minimum age in seconds. When enabled FusionAuth will not allow a password to be changed until it reaches this minimum age. Required when `systemConfiguration.minimumPasswordAge.enabled` is set to `true`.

|[field]#tenant.minimumPasswordAge.enabled# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`# [since]#Available Since 1.8.0#
|Indicates that the minimum password age is enabled and being enforced.

|[field]#tenant.name# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#
|The name of the Tenant.
|===

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/tenants/request.json[]
----
