docs/v1/tech/apis/_users-request-body.adoc, before:

You must provide either the **email** or the **username** field for each User. This will be used to authenticate the User and is also the User's unique identifier. These fields are marked as optional below, but you must provide one of them.

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Body
|===
|[field]#encryptionScheme# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The encryption scheme used to encrypt plaintext passwords encountered in the request. If this value is omitted the system configured value will be used.

The following encryptors are provided with FusionAuth:

* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-md5[salted-md5]`
* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-sha-256[salted-sha256]`
* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-hmac-sha-256[salted-hmac-sha256]`
* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-pbkdf2-hmac-sha-256[salted-pbkdf2-hmac-sha256]`
* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-bcrypt[bcrypt]`

|[field]#factor# [type]#[Integer]# [optional]#Optional#
|The factor used to encrypt plaintext passwords encountered in the request. If this value is omitted the system configured value will be used.

|[field]#users# [type]#[Array]# [required]#Required#
|The list of Users to import.

|[field]#users``[x]``.active# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|True if the User is active. False if the User has been deactivated. Deactivated Users will not be able to login. Generally this should be set to `true` during the bulk import.

|[field]#users``[x]``.birthDate# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|`YYYY-MM-DD` formatted date of the User's birth.

|[field]#users``[x]``.data# [type]#[Object]# [optional]#Optional#
|An object that can hold any information about a User that should be persisted.

|[field]#users``[x]``.email# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The User's email address.

|[field]#users``[x]``.encryptionScheme# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `salted-pbkdf2-hmac-sha256`#
|The method for encrypting the User's password. If the password value is already encrypted this value is required.

Omitting this value indicates the password is in plain text and it will be encrypted using the default password encryptor.

[WARNING]
====
Importing users with plain text passwords is very slow because FusionAuth will hash each one using the default scheme. Grab some popcorn and catch a movie it can take up to several hundred milliseconds per user.
====

The following encryptors are provided with FusionAuth:

* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-md5[salted-md5]`
* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-sha-256[salted-sha256]`
* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-hmac-sha-256[salted-hmac-sha256]`
* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-pbkdf2-hmac-sha-256[salted-pbkdf2-hmac-sha256]`
* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-bcrypt[bcrypt]`

If you don't see the scheme needed for importing your existing password you can also create your own password encryptor or we can build it for you. See the link:../plugins/password-encryptors[Password Encryptors] section for more information.

|[field]#users``[x]``.expiry# [type]#[Long]# [optional]#Optional#
|The expiration link:../reference/data-types#instants[instant] of the User's account. After this instant is reached, the User's account will automatically be deactivated.

|[field]#users``[x]``.factor# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The factor used by the password encryption scheme. If omitted the factor will determined either by the system configured factor or the default value defined by the `PasswordEncryptor`.

The factor will generally be used as an iteration count to generate the hash. The actual use of this value is up to the `PasswordEncryptor` implementation.

|[field]#users``[x]``.firstName# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The first name of the User.

|[field]#users``[x]``.fullName# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The User's full name (as a separate field that is not calculated from **firstName** and **lastName**)

|[field]#users``[x]``.id# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to secure random UUID#
|The Id of the User. If not specified a secure random UUID will be generated.

|[field]#users``[x]``.imageUrl# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The URL that points to an image file that is the User's profile image.

|[field]#users``[x]``.insertInstant# [type]#[Long]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to now#
|The link:../reference/data-types#instants[instant] when user was created.

|[field]#users``[x]``.lastName# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The User's last name.

|[field]#users``[x]``.middleName# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The User's middle name.

|[field]#users``[x]``.mobilePhone# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The User's mobile phone number. This is useful is you will be sending push notifications or SMS messages to the User.

|[field]#users``[x]``.password# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The User's password. Required if `encryptionScheme` is provided.

|[field]#users``[x]``.passwordChangeRequired# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional#
|Indicates that the User's password needs to be changed during the next login attempt.

|[field]#users``[x]``.passwordLastUpdateInstant# [type]#[Long]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to now#
|Indicates that last link:../reference/data-types#instants[instant] the password was changed.

If `encryptionScheme` is omitted this value will be ignored and set to the now.

Note that if you have enabled password expiration or plan to do so in the future and you set this value to `0` or some other arbitrary time in the past that is greater than the password expiration value in days, these users will be required to change their password. It is recommended that you omit this value and allow the default value to be set unless you know the last time the user changed their password.

|[field]#users``[x]``.preferredLanguages# [type]#[Array<String>]# [optional]#Optional#
|An array of locale strings that give, in order, the User's preferred languages. These are important for email templates and other localizable text. See link:../reference/data-types#locales[Locales].

|[field]#users``[x]``.registrations# [type]#[Array]# [optional]#Optional#
|The list of registrations for the User.

|[field]#users``[x]``.registrations``[x]``.applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The Id of the Application that this registration is for.

|[field]#users``[x]``.registrations``[x]``.cleanSpeakId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#
|This Id is used by FusionAuth when the User's username for this registration is sent to CleanSpeak to be moderated (filtered and potentially sent to the approval queue). It is the **content Id** of the username inside CleanSpeak.

|[field]#users``[x]``.registrations``[x]``.data# [type]#[Object]# [optional]#Optional#
|An object that can hold any information about the User for this registration that should be persisted.

|[field]#users``[x]``.registrations``[x]``.id# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to secure random UUID#
|The Id of this registration. If not specified a secure random UUID will be generated.

|[field]#users``[x]``.registrations``[x]``.insertInstant# [type]#[Long]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to now#
|The link:../reference/data-types#instants[instant] that this registration was created.

|[field]#users``[x]``.registrations``[x]``.lastLoginInstant# [type]#[Long]# [optional]#Optional#
|The link:../reference/data-types#instants[instant] that the User last logged into the Application for this registration.

|[field]#users``[x]``.registrations``[x]``.preferredLanguages# [type]#[Array<String>]# [optional]#Optional#
|An array of locale strings that give, in order, the User's preferred languages for this registration. These are important for email templates and other localizable text. See link:../reference/data-types#locales[Locales].

|[field]#users``[x]``.registrations``[x]``.roles# [type]#[Array<String>]# [optional]#Optional#
|The list of roles that the User has for this registration.

|[field]#users``[x]``.registrations``[x]``.username# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The username of the User for this registration only.

|[field]#users``[x]``.registrations``[x]``.usernameStatus# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `ACTIVE`#
|
include::_moderation_status_request.adoc[]

|[field]#users``[x]``.salt# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The User's password salt. Required if `encryptionScheme` is provided. Empty string is allowed.

|[field]#users``[x]``.tenantId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#
|The User's tenant Id. If more than one tenant exists and you do not provide the `X-FusionAuth-TenantId` HTTP header or use API key to indicate
which Tenant this request is for then this field will be required to complete the request.

When an API key is used that is locked to a Tenant or the tenant `X-FusionAuth-TenantId` HTTP header is provided this field is ignored.

|[field]#users``[x]``.timezone# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The User's preferred timezone. This can be used as a default to display instants. It is recommended that you allow users to change this on a per-session basis.

|[field]#users``[x]``.twoFactorDelivery# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `None`#
|The User's preferred delivery for verification codes during a two factor login request.

The possible values are:

* `None`
* `TextMessage`

When using `TextMessage` the User will also need a valid `mobilePhone`.

|[field]#users``[x]``.twoFactorEnabled# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional#
|Determines if the User has two factor authentication enabled for their account or not.

See the link:../apis/two-factor#enable-two-factor[Enable Two Factor] and link:../apis/two-factor#disable-two-factor[Disable Two Factor] APIs
as an alternative to performing this action using the User API.

|[field]#users``[x]``.twoFactorSecret# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The secret used to generate Two Factor verification codes.

You may optionally use value provided in the `secret` field returned by the link:../apis/two-factor#generate-a-secret[Two Factor Secret] API
instead of generating this value yourself.

Unless you are using `TextMessage` as your delivery type, ensure you are able to share the secret with the User before enabling Two Factor authentication.
Beginning in version 1.17.0, if you do create a User with `TextMessage` set as the `twoFactorDelivery` type and you omit this value, the secret will
be generated for you. The secret can be generated because it is not necessary to share the secret with the User for this delivery method.

When using `None` as the `twoFactorDelivery` this value will be required.

|[field]#users``[x]``.username# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The username of the User.

|[field]#users``[x]``.usernameStatus# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `ACTIVE`#
|
include::_moderation_status_request.adoc[]

|[field]#validateDbConstraints# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Set this value to `true` in order to perform additional validation of the request.

The import request is intended to be used to populate the initial set of users, this means FusionAuth does not expect to find duplicate users in the database. If a duplicate is encountered a `500` will be returned without this additional validation.

If you intend to use this API with existing users in FusionAuth set this value to `true` to request additional validation be performed on the input request
and a `400` response will be returned with JSON body indicating the duplicate values encountered.

Setting this value to `true` will dramatically decrease the performance of this request. If importing large numbers of users in a single request you may need
to increase request timeouts to ensure this request does not timeout before it has completed.
|===

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/users/import-request.json[]
----

Commit message:

Update doc for time zones

docs/v1/tech/apis/_users-request-body.adoc, after:

You must provide either the **email** or the **username** field for each User. This will be used to authenticate the User and is also the User's unique identifier. These fields are marked as optional below, but you must provide one of them.

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Body
|===
|[field]#encryptionScheme# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The encryption scheme used to encrypt plaintext passwords encountered in the request. If this value is omitted the system configured value will be used.

The following encryptors are provided with FusionAuth:

* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-md5[salted-md5]`
* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-sha-256[salted-sha256]`
* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-hmac-sha-256[salted-hmac-sha256]`
* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-pbkdf2-hmac-sha-256[salted-pbkdf2-hmac-sha256]`
* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-bcrypt[bcrypt]`

|[field]#factor# [type]#[Integer]# [optional]#Optional#
|The factor used to encrypt plaintext passwords encountered in the request. If this value is omitted the system configured value will be used.

|[field]#users# [type]#[Array]# [required]#Required#
|The list of Users to import.

|[field]#users``[x]``.active# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|True if the User is active. False if the User has been deactivated. Deactivated Users will not be able to login. Generally this should be set to `true` during the bulk import.

|[field]#users``[x]``.birthDate# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|`YYYY-MM-DD` formatted date of the User's birth.

|[field]#users``[x]``.data# [type]#[Object]# [optional]#Optional#
|An object that can hold any information about a User that should be persisted.

|[field]#users``[x]``.email# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The User's email address.

|[field]#users``[x]``.encryptionScheme# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `salted-pbkdf2-hmac-sha256`#
|The method for encrypting the User's password. If the password value is already encrypted this value is required.

Omitting this value indicates the password is in plain text and it will be encrypted using the default password encryptor.

[WARNING]
====
Importing users with plain text passwords is very slow because FusionAuth will hash each one using the default scheme. Grab some popcorn and catch a movie it can take up to several hundred milliseconds per user.
====

The following encryptors are provided with FusionAuth:

* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-md5[salted-md5]`
* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-sha-256[salted-sha256]`
* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-hmac-sha-256[salted-hmac-sha256]`
* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-pbkdf2-hmac-sha-256[salted-pbkdf2-hmac-sha256]`
* `link:../reference/password-encryptors#salted-bcrypt[bcrypt]`

If you don't see the scheme needed for importing your existing password you can also create your own password encryptor or we can build it for you. See the link:../plugins/password-encryptors[Password Encryptors] section for more information.

|[field]#users``[x]``.expiry# [type]#[Long]# [optional]#Optional#
|The expiration link:../reference/data-types#instants[instant] of the User's account. After this instant is reached, the User's account will automatically be deactivated.

|[field]#users``[x]``.factor# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The factor used by the password encryption scheme. If omitted the factor will determined either by the system configured factor or the default value defined by the `PasswordEncryptor`.

The factor will generally be used as an iteration count to generate the hash. The actual use of this value is up to the `PasswordEncryptor` implementation.

|[field]#users``[x]``.firstName# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The first name of the User.

|[field]#users``[x]``.fullName# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The User's full name (as a separate field that is not calculated from **firstName** and **lastName**)

|[field]#users``[x]``.id# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to secure random UUID#
|The Id of the User. If not specified a secure random UUID will be generated.

|[field]#users``[x]``.imageUrl# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The URL that points to an image file that is the User's profile image.

|[field]#users``[x]``.insertInstant# [type]#[Long]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to now#
|The link:../reference/data-types#instants[instant] when user was created.

|[field]#users``[x]``.lastName# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The User's last name.

|[field]#users``[x]``.middleName# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The User's middle name.

|[field]#users``[x]``.mobilePhone# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The User's mobile phone number. This is useful is you will be sending push notifications or SMS messages to the User.

|[field]#users``[x]``.password# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The User's password. Required if `encryptionScheme` is provided.

|[field]#users``[x]``.passwordChangeRequired# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional#
|Indicates that the User's password needs to be changed during the next login attempt.

|[field]#users``[x]``.passwordLastUpdateInstant# [type]#[Long]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to now#
|Indicates that last link:../reference/data-types#instants[instant] the password was changed.

If `encryptionScheme` is omitted this value will be ignored and set to the now.

Note that if you have enabled password expiration or plan to do so in the future and you set this value to `0` or some other arbitrary time in the past that is greater than the password expiration value in days, these users will be required to change their password. It is recommended that you omit this value and allow the default value to be set unless you know the last time the user changed their password.

|[field]#users``[x]``.preferredLanguages# [type]#[Array<String>]# [optional]#Optional#
|An array of locale strings that give, in order, the User's preferred languages. These are important for email templates and other localizable text. See link:../reference/data-types#locales[Locales].

|[field]#users``[x]``.registrations# [type]#[Array]# [optional]#Optional#
|The list of registrations for the User.

|[field]#users``[x]``.registrations``[x]``.applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The Id of the Application that this registration is for.

|[field]#users``[x]``.registrations``[x]``.cleanSpeakId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#
|This Id is used by FusionAuth when the User's username for this registration is sent to CleanSpeak to be moderated (filtered and potentially sent to the approval queue). It is the **content Id** of the username inside CleanSpeak.

|[field]#users``[x]``.registrations``[x]``.data# [type]#[Object]# [optional]#Optional#
|An object that can hold any information about the User for this registration that should be persisted.

|[field]#users``[x]``.registrations``[x]``.id# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to secure random UUID#
|The Id of this registration. If not specified a secure random UUID will be generated.

|[field]#users``[x]``.registrations``[x]``.insertInstant# [type]#[Long]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to now#
|The link:../reference/data-types#instants[instant] that this registration was created.

|[field]#users``[x]``.registrations``[x]``.lastLoginInstant# [type]#[Long]# [optional]#Optional#
|The link:../reference/data-types#instants[instant] that the User last logged into the Application for this registration.

|[field]#users``[x]``.registrations``[x]``.preferredLanguages# [type]#[Array<String>]# [optional]#Optional#
|An array of locale strings that give, in order, the User's preferred languages for this registration. These are important for email templates and other localizable text. See link:../reference/data-types#locales[Locales].

|[field]#users``[x]``.registrations``[x]``.roles# [type]#[Array<String>]# [optional]#Optional#
|The list of roles that the User has for this registration.

|[field]#users``[x]``.registrations``[x]``.username# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The username of the User for this registration only.

|[field]#users``[x]``.registrations``[x]``.usernameStatus# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `ACTIVE`#
|
include::_moderation_status_request.adoc[]

|[field]#users``[x]``.salt# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The User's password salt. Required if `encryptionScheme` is provided. Empty string is allowed.

|[field]#users``[x]``.tenantId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#
|The User's tenant Id. If more than one tenant exists and you do not provide the `X-FusionAuth-TenantId` HTTP header or use API key to indicate
which Tenant this request is for then this field will be required to complete the request.

When an API key is used that is locked to a Tenant or the tenant `X-FusionAuth-TenantId` HTTP header is provided this field is ignored.

|[field]#users``[x]``.timezone# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The User's preferred timezone. The string must be in an https://www.iana.org/time-zones[IANA] time zone format.

|[field]#users``[x]``.twoFactorDelivery# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `None`#
|The User's preferred delivery for verification codes during a two factor login request.

The possible values are:

* `None`
* `TextMessage`

When using `TextMessage` the User will also need a valid `mobilePhone`.

|[field]#users``[x]``.twoFactorEnabled# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional#
|Determines if the User has two factor authentication enabled for their account or not.

See the link:../apis/two-factor#enable-two-factor[Enable Two Factor] and link:../apis/two-factor#disable-two-factor[Disable Two Factor] APIs
as an alternative to performing this action using the User API.

|[field]#users``[x]``.twoFactorSecret# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The secret used to generate Two Factor verification codes.

You may optionally use value provided in the `secret` field returned by the link:../apis/two-factor#generate-a-secret[Two Factor Secret] API
instead of generating this value yourself.

Unless you are using `TextMessage` as your delivery type, ensure you are able to share the secret with the User before enabling Two Factor authentication.
Beginning in version 1.17.0, if you do create a User with `TextMessage` set as the `twoFactorDelivery` type and you omit this value, the secret will
be generated for you. The secret can be generated because it is not necessary to share the secret with the User for this delivery method.

When using `None` as the `twoFactorDelivery` this value will be required.

|[field]#users``[x]``.username# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The username of the User.

|[field]#users``[x]``.usernameStatus# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `ACTIVE`#
|
include::_moderation_status_request.adoc[]

|[field]#validateDbConstraints# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Set this value to `true` in order to perform additional validation of the request.

The import request is intended to be used to populate the initial set of users, this means FusionAuth does not expect to find duplicate users in the database. If a duplicate is encountered a `500` will be returned without this additional validation.

If you intend to use this API with existing users in FusionAuth set this value to `true` to request additional validation be performed on the input request
and a `400` response will be returned with JSON body indicating the duplicate values encountered.

Setting this value to `true` will dramatically decrease the performance of this request. If importing large numbers of users in a single request you may need
to increase request timeouts to ensure this request does not timeout before it has completed.
|===

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/users/import-request.json[]
----
