docs/v1/tech/apis/_user-registration-response-body.adoc, before:

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Response Body
|===
|[field]#registration.applicationId# [type]#[UUID]#
|The Id of the Application that this registration is for.

|[field]#registration.authenticationToken# [type]#[String]#
|The Authentication Token for this registration (if one exists).

|[field]#registration.cleanSpeakId# [type]#[UUID]#
|This Id is used by FusionAuth when the User's username for this registration is sent to CleanSpeak to be moderated (filtered and potentially sent to the approval queue). It is the **content Id** of the username inside CleanSpeak.

|[field]#registration.data# [type]#[Object]#
|An object that can hold any information about the User for this registration that should be persisted.

|[field]#registration.preferredLanguages# [type]#[Array<String>]#
|An array of locale strings that give, in order, the User's preferred languages for this registration. These are important for email templates and other localizable text. See link:../reference/data-types#locales[Locales].

|[field]#registration.id# [type]#[UUID]#
|The Id of this registration.

|[field]#registration.insertInstant# [type]#[Long]#
|The link:../reference/data-types#instants[instant] that this registration was created.

|[field]#registration.lastLoginInstant# [type]#[Long]#
|The link:../reference/data-types#instants[instant] that the User last logged into the Application for this registration.

|[field]#registration.roles# [type]#[Array<String>]#
|The list of roles that the User has for this registration.

|[field]#registration.timezone# [type]#[String]#
|The User's preferred timezone for this registration.

|[field]#registration.username# [type]#[String]#
|The username of the User for this registration only.

|[field]#registration.usernameStatus# [type]#[String]#
|
include::_moderation_status_response.adoc[]

|[field]#registration.verified# [type]#[Boolean]#
|This value indicates if this User's registration has been verified.
|===

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/user-registrations/response.json[]
----

Commit message:

Adding login API for Identity Providers, add registration.tokens to responses.

docs/v1/tech/apis/_user-registration-response-body.adoc, after:

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Response Body
|===
|[field]#registration.applicationId# [type]#[UUID]#
|The Id of the Application that this registration is for.

|[field]#registration.authenticationToken# [type]#[String]#
|The Authentication Token for this registration (if one exists).

|[field]#registration.cleanSpeakId# [type]#[UUID]#
|This Id is used by FusionAuth when the User's username for this registration is sent to CleanSpeak to be moderated (filtered and potentially sent to the approval queue). It is the **content Id** of the username inside CleanSpeak.

|[field]#registration.data# [type]#[Object]#
|An object that can hold any information about the User for this registration that should be persisted.

|[field]#registration.id# [type]#[UUID]#
|The Id of this registration.

|[field]#registration.insertInstant# [type]#[Long]#
|The link:../reference/data-types#instants[instant] that this registration was created.

|[field]#registration.lastLoginInstant# [type]#[Long]#
|The link:../reference/data-types#instants[instant] that the User last logged into the Application for this registration.

|[field]#registration.preferredLanguages# [type]#[Array<String>]#
|An array of locale strings that give, in order, the User's preferred languages for this registration. These are important for email templates and other localizable text. See link:../reference/data-types#locales[Locales].

|[field]#registration.roles# [type]#[Array<String>]#
|The list of roles that the User has for this registration.

|[field]#registration.timezone# [type]#[String]#
|The User's preferred timezone for this registration.

|[field]#registration.tokens# [type]#[Map<String,String>]# [since]#Available Since 1.1.0#
|A map that contains tokens returned from identity providers.

For example, if this user has authenticated using the Facebook Identity Provider, the Facebook access token will be available in this map, keyed by name `Facebook`. For an OpenID Connect Identity provider, or other generic providers, if a token is stored it will be keyed by the Identity Provider unique Id.

|[field]#registration.username# [type]#[String]#
|The username of the User for this registration only.

|[field]#registration.usernameStatus# [type]#[String]#
|
include::_moderation_status_response.adoc[]

|[field]#registration.verified# [type]#[Boolean]#
|This value indicates if this User's registration has been verified.
|===

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/user-registrations/response.json[]
----
