docs/v1/tech/apis/_user-registration-request-body.adoc, before:

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Body
|===
|[field]#generateAuthenticationToken# [type]#[boolean]# [optional]#Optional#
|Determines if FusionAuth should generate an Authentication Token for this registration.

|[field]#registration.applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The Id of the Application that this registration is for.

|[field]#registration.data# [type]#[Object]# [optional]#Optional#
|An object that can hold any information about the User for this registration that should be persisted.

|[field]#registration.preferredLanguages# [type]#[Array<String>]# [optional]#Optional#
|An array of locale strings that give, in order, the User's preferred languages for this registration. These are important for email templates and other localizable text. See link:../reference/data-types#locales[Locales].

ifeval::["{http_method}" == "POST"]
|[field]#registration.id# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to secure random UUID#
|The Id of this registration. If not specified a secure random UUID will be generated.
endif::[]

|[field]#registration.roles# [type]#[Array<String>]# [optional]#Optional#
|The list of roles that the User has for this Application.

|[field]#registration.timezone# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The User's preferred timezone for this Application registration.

|[field]#registration.username# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The username of the User for this Application only.

ifeval::["{http_method}" == "POST"]
|[field]#skipRegistrationVerification# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Indicates to FusionAuth that it should skip registration verification even if it is enabled for the Application.
endif::[]
|===

ifeval::["{http_method}" == "POST"]
[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/user-registrations/create-request.json[]
----
endif::[]

ifeval::["{http_method}" == "PUT"]
[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/user-registrations/update-request.json[]
----
endif::[]

Commit message:

Update doc for time zones

docs/v1/tech/apis/_user-registration-request-body.adoc, after:

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Body
|===
|[field]#generateAuthenticationToken# [type]#[boolean]# [optional]#Optional#
|Determines if FusionAuth should generate an Authentication Token for this registration.

|[field]#registration.applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The Id of the Application that this registration is for.

|[field]#registration.data# [type]#[Object]# [optional]#Optional#
|An object that can hold any information about the User for this registration that should be persisted.

|[field]#registration.preferredLanguages# [type]#[Array<String>]# [optional]#Optional#
|An array of locale strings that give, in order, the User's preferred languages for this registration. These are important for email templates and other localizable text. See link:../reference/data-types#locales[Locales].

ifeval::["{http_method}" == "POST"]
|[field]#registration.id# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to secure random UUID#
|The Id of this registration. If not specified a secure random UUID will be generated.
endif::[]

|[field]#registration.roles# [type]#[Array<String>]# [optional]#Optional#
|The list of roles that the User has for this Application.

|[field]#registration.timezone# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The User's preferred timezone for this Application registration. The string must be in an https://www.iana.org/time-zones[IANA] time zone format.

|[field]#registration.username# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The username of the User for this Application only.

ifeval::["{http_method}" == "POST"]
|[field]#skipRegistrationVerification# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|Indicates to FusionAuth that it should skip registration verification even if it is enabled for the Application.
endif::[]
|===

ifeval::["{http_method}" == "POST"]
[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/user-registrations/create-request.json[]
----
endif::[]

ifeval::["{http_method}" == "PUT"]
[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::../../../src/json/user-registrations/update-request.json[]
----
endif::[]
