docs/v1/tech/apis/login.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Login APIs
description: APIs for authenticating users (logging them in) or tracking an SSO login (login ping) and two factor authentication
---

== Overview

This page contains the APIs that are used to authenticate and track user logins.

* <<Authenticate a User>>
* <<Complete Two Factor Authentication>>
* <<Update Login Instant>>
* <<Logout a User>>


== Authenticate a User

The Login API is used authenticate a user in FusionAuth.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#no-authentication-required[icon:unlock-alt[role=green]] Authenticate a User.
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/login#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Headers
|===
|[field]#X-Forwarded-For# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The IP address of a client requesting authentication. If the IP address is provided it will be stored for login history of the user. It is
generally preferred to specify the IP address in the request body. If it is not provided in the request body this header value will be used
if available, the request body value will take precedence.
|===

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Body
|===
|[field]#applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#
|The Id of the Application the user is to be logged into. If this parameter is omitted the user will still be authenticated but a login
count will not be recorded for an Application.

|[field]#device# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional# [deprecated]#Deprecated#
|The unique device identifier for this request. This value should be unique to the device and the same device Id should be sent on subsequent requests for the same device.

Using this parameter will indicate you wish to receive a refresh token on the response. The refresh token will be written on the HTTP response as an HTTP only persistent cookie named `refresh_token`, and also be provided in the JSON response body.

[deprecated]#Removed in version 1.5.0# This parameter is no longer required to receive a Refresh Token, if it is provided on the request it will be ignored. In version 1.5.0 and later Refresh Tokens are issued by the Login API based upon the Application configuration. See `loginConfiguration` settings in the link:./applications[Application API].

|[field]#ipAddress# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The IP address of the end-user that is logging into FusionAuth. If this value is omitted FusionAuth will attempt to obtain the IP address of
the client, the value will be that of the `X-Forwarded-For` header if provided or the last proxy that sent the request. The IP address will
be stored in the User login history.

|[field]#loginId# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#
|The login identifier of the user. The login identifier can be either the `email` or the `username`.

|[field]#metaData.device.description# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|A human readable description of the device used during login. This meta data is used to describe the refresh token that may be generated for this login request.

|[field]#metaData.device.name# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|A human readable name of the device used during login.  This meta data is used to describe the refresh token that may be generated for this login request.

|[field]#metaData.device.type# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The type of device used during login. The following types may be specified:

* `BROWSER`
* `DESKTOP`
* `LAPTOP`
* `MOBILE`
* `OTHER`
* `SERVER`
* `TABLET`
* `TV`
* `UNKNOWN`

This meta data is used to describe the refresh token that may be generated for this login request.

|[field]#noJWT# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|When this value is set to true a JWT will not be issued as part of this request. The response body will not contain the `token` or `refreshToken` fields, and the `access_token` and `refresh_token` cookies will not be written to the HTTP response.

This optional parameter may be helpful when performing high volume authentication requests and the JWT is not being utilized, in this scenario removing the additional latency required to issue and sign the JWT may have a measurable cumulative effect on performance.

|[field]#password# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#
|The user's password or an Application specific link:../tutorials/authentication-tokens[Authentication Token].

|[field]#twoFactorTrustId# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The Two Factor Trust identifier returned by the Two Factor Login API response. This value be may be provided to bypass the Two Factor challenge when a User has Two Factor enabled.
|===

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/login/request.json[]
----

=== Response

The response for this API contains the User object.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_login-response-codes.adoc[]

:login_response:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_user-response-body.adoc[]
:login_response!:

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Response Cookies
|===
|[field]#access_token# [type]#[String]#
|The encoded access token. This cookie is written in the response as an HTTP Only session cookie.

|[field]#refresh_token# [type]#[String]#
|The refresh token. This cookie is written in the response as an HTTP only persistent cookie. The cookie expiration is configured in the JWT
configuration for the application or the global JWT configuration.
|===

== Complete Two Factor Authentication

The Two Factor Login API is used to complete the authentication process when a `242` is returned by the Login API.

=== Request

Complete a login request when a User has Two Factor authentication enabled.

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#no-authentication-required[icon:unlock-alt[role=green]] Complete a Two Factor Login
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/two-factor/login#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Headers
|===
|[field]#X-Forwarded-For# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The IP address of a client requesting authentication. If the IP address is provided it will be stored for login history of the user. It is
generally preferred to specify the IP address in the request body. If it is not provided in the request body this header value will be used
if available, the request body value will take precedence.
|===

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Body
|===
|[field]#applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#
|The Id of the Application the user is to be logged into. If this parameter is omitted the user will still be authenticated but a login
count will not be recorded for an Application.

|[field]#code# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#
|The time based one time use password, also called a Two Factor verification code.

|[field]#device# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The unique device identifier for this request.

Use this parameter to cause a refresh token cookie will be written to the client on the response named `refresh_token` and it will also be
provided in the response body. This value should be unique to the device and the same device id should be sent on subsequent requests for the same device.

|[field]#ipAddress# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The IP address of the end-user that is logging into FusionAuth. If this value is omitted FusionAuth will attempt to obtain the IP address
of the client, the value will be that of the `X-Forwarded-For` header if provided or the last proxy that sent the request. The IP address
will be stored in the User login history.

|[field]#metaData.device.description# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|A human readable description of the device represented by the `device` parameter.

|[field]#metaData.device.lastAccessedAddress# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The IP address of this login request.

|[field]#metaData.device.name# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|A human readable name of the device represented by the `device` parameter.

|[field]#metaData.device.type# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The type of device represented by the `device` parameter. The following types may be specified:

* `BROWSER`
* `DESKTOP`
* `LAPTOP`
* `MOBILE`
* `OTHER`
* `SERVER`
* `TABLET`
* `TV`
* `UNKNOWN`

|[field]#noJWT# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|When this value is set to true a JWT will not be issued as part of this request. The response body will not contain the `token` field,
and the `access_token` and `refresh_token` cookies will not be written to the HTTP response.

|[field]#trustComputer# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|When this value is set to true the response will contain a Two Factor Trust identifier. This can be used on subsequent Login requests to
allow the Two Factor challenge to be bypassed.

|[field]#twoFactorId# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#
|The two factor Id generated and returned in the response body during the initial authentication attempt.

The default duration of this identifier is 5 minutes. This means that you have 5 minutes to complete the request to this API after
calling the Login API. Once the identifier has expired you will need to call the Login API again to restart the process.

This duration can be modified using the System Configuration API or in the FusionAuth UI.
|===

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/login/two-factor/request.json[]
----

=== Response

The response for this API contains the User object.

[cols="1,9a"]
.Response Codes
|===
|Code |Description

|200
|The authentication was successful. The response will contain the User object that was authenticated.

|202
|The user was authenticated successfully. The user is not registered for the application specified by `applicationId` on the request.
The response will contain the User object that was authenticated.

|203
|The user was authenticated successfully. The user is required to change their password, the response will contain the `changePasswordId` to be used
on the link:users#change-a-user-s-password[Change Password] API.

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/login/login-change-password-response.json[]
----

|212
|The user's email address has not yet been verified. The response will contain the User object that was authenticated.

|400
|The request was invalid and/or malformed. The response will contain an link:errors[Errors] JSON Object with the specific errors.

|404
|The `twoFactorId` was invalid or expired. You will need to authenticate again using the link:#authenticate-a-user[Login] API. The response will be empty.

|409
|The user is currently in an action that has prevented login. The response will contain the actions that prevented login.

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/login/login-prevented-response.json[]
----

|410
|The user has expired. The response will be empty.

|421
|The `code` request parameter is not valid. The response will be empty.

|500
|There was an internal error. A stack trace is provided and logged in the FusionAuth log files. The response will be empty.

|503
|The search index is not available or encountered an exception so the request cannot be completed. The response will contain a JSON body.
|===

:login_response:
:two_factor_login_response:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_user-response-body.adoc[]
:login_response!:
:two_factor_login_response!:

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Response Cookies
|===
|[field]#access_token# [type]#[String]#
|The encoded access token. This cookie is written in the response as an HTTP Only session cookie.

|[field]#refresh_token# [type]#[String]#
|The refresh token. This cookie is written in the response as an HTTP Only persistent cookie. The cookie expiration is configured in the
JWT configuration for the application or the global JWT configuration.

|[field]#fusionauth.trust# [type]#[String]#
|The Two Factor Trust identifier. This value is returned when `trustComputer` was set to `true` on the request. This value can be used by
 subsequent login requests to bypass the Two Factor challenge. This cookie is written in the response as an HTTP Only persistent cookie.
|===

== Update Login Instant

Sends a ping to FusionAuth indicating that the user was automatically logged into an application. When using FusionAuth's SSO or your own, you
should call this if the user is already logged in centrally, but accesses an application where they no longer have a session. This helps
correctly track login counts, times and helps with reporting.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Update the login instant for a given User and Application
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/login/``\{userId\}/\{applicationId\}?ipAddress=\{ipAddress\}``#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Headers
|===
|[field]#X-Forwarded-For# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The IP address of a client requesting authentication. If the IP address is provided it will be stored for login history of the user. It is
generally preferred to specify the IP address in the request body. If it is not provided in the request body this header value will be used
if available, the request body value will take precedence.
|===

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#userId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The Id of the user logging in.

|[field]#applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The Id of the Application the user is logging into.

|[field]#ipAddress# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The IP address of the end-user that is logging into FusionAuth. If this value is omitted FusionAuth will attempt to obtain the IP address of
the client, the value will be that of the `X-Forwarded-For` header if provided or the last proxy that sent the request. The IP address will
be stored in the User login history.
|===

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#jwt-authentication[icon:id-badge[role=green]] Update the login instant for a given User and Application using a JWT
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/login``?ipAddress=\{ipAddress\}``#
--

The `userId` and `applicationId` are not required on the request, these values will be retrieved from the identity claims in the JWT payload.

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#ipAddress# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The IP address of the end-user that is logging into FusionAuth. If this value is omitted FusionAuth will attempt to obtain the IP address of
the client, the value will be that of the `X-Forwarded-For` header if provided or the last proxy that sent the request. The IP address will
be stored in the User login history.
|===

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

[cols="1,9"]
.Response Codes
|===
|Code |Description

|200
|The update was successful.

|202
|The user exists but is not registered for the application specified by applicationId on the request.

|400
|The request was invalid and/or malformed. The response will contain an link:errors[Errors] JSON Object with the specific errors.

|401
|You did not supply a valid Authorization header. The header was omitted or your API key was not valid. The response will be empty. See link:authentication[Authentication].

|404
|The user was not found.

|500
|There was an internal error. A stack trace is provided and logged in the FusionAuth log files.

|503
|The search index is not available or encountered an exception so the request cannot be completed. The response will contain a JSON body.
|===

== Logout a User

The Logout API is intended to be used to remove the refresh token and access token cookies if they exist on the client and revoke the refresh token. This
API does nothing if the request does not contain an access token or refresh token cookies.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#no-authentication-required[icon:unlock-alt[role=green]] Remove the `access_token` and `refresh_token` cookies if they exist on the client.
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/logout``?global=\{global\}&refreshToken=\{refreshToken\}``#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#global# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional#
|When this value is set to true all of the refresh tokens issued to the owner of the provided refresh token will be revoked.

|[field]#refreshToken# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The `refresh_token` as a request parameter instead of coming in via a cookie. If provided this takes precedence over the cookie.
|===

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

[cols="1,9"]
.Response Codes
|===
|Code |Description

|200
|The update was successful.

|500
|There was an internal error. A stack trace is provided and logged in the FusionAuth log files.
|===

Commit message:

login API auth is optional

docs/v1/tech/apis/login.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Login APIs
description: APIs for authenticating users (logging them in) or tracking an SSO login (login ping) and two factor authentication
---

== Overview

This page contains the APIs that are used to authenticate and track user logins.

* <<Authenticate a User>>
* <<Complete Two Factor Authentication>>
* <<Update Login Instant>>
* <<Logout a User>>


== Authenticate a User

The Login API is used authenticate a user in FusionAuth.

=== Request

By default, this API will require authentication when called with an `applicationId`. Authentication may be disabled per Application, see `application.loginConfiguration.requireAuthentication` in the Application API or the Security tab in the Application configuration. Prior to version `1.5.0` this API never require an API key.

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#no-authentication-required[icon:unlock-alt[role=green]] link:authentication#no-authentication-required[icon:lock[role=red]] Authenticate a User
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/login#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Headers
|===
|[field]#X-Forwarded-For# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The IP address of a client requesting authentication. If the IP address is provided it will be stored for login history of the user. It is
generally preferred to specify the IP address in the request body. If it is not provided in the request body this header value will be used
if available, the request body value will take precedence.
|===

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Body
|===
|[field]#applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#
|The Id of the Application the user is to be logged into. If this parameter is omitted the user will still be authenticated but a login
count will not be recorded for an Application.

|[field]#device# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional# [deprecated]#Deprecated#
|The unique device identifier for this request. This value should be unique to the device and the same device Id should be sent on subsequent requests for the same device.

Using this parameter will indicate you wish to receive a refresh token on the response. The refresh token will be written on the HTTP response as an HTTP only persistent cookie named `refresh_token`, and also be provided in the JSON response body.

[deprecated]#Removed in version 1.5.0# This parameter is no longer required to receive a Refresh Token, if it is provided on the request it will be ignored. In version 1.5.0 and later Refresh Tokens are issued by the Login API based upon the Application configuration. See `loginConfiguration` settings in the link:./applications[Application API].

|[field]#ipAddress# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The IP address of the end-user that is logging into FusionAuth. If this value is omitted FusionAuth will attempt to obtain the IP address of
the client, the value will be that of the `X-Forwarded-For` header if provided or the last proxy that sent the request. The IP address will
be stored in the User login history.

|[field]#loginId# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#
|The login identifier of the user. The login identifier can be either the `email` or the `username`.

|[field]#metaData.device.description# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|A human readable description of the device used during login. This meta data is used to describe the refresh token that may be generated for this login request.

|[field]#metaData.device.name# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|A human readable name of the device used during login.  This meta data is used to describe the refresh token that may be generated for this login request.

|[field]#metaData.device.type# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The type of device used during login. The following types may be specified:

* `BROWSER`
* `DESKTOP`
* `LAPTOP`
* `MOBILE`
* `OTHER`
* `SERVER`
* `TABLET`
* `TV`
* `UNKNOWN`

This meta data is used to describe the refresh token that may be generated for this login request.

|[field]#noJWT# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|When this value is set to true a JWT will not be issued as part of this request. The response body will not contain the `token` or `refreshToken` fields, and the `access_token` and `refresh_token` cookies will not be written to the HTTP response.

This optional parameter may be helpful when performing high volume authentication requests and the JWT is not being utilized, in this scenario removing the additional latency required to issue and sign the JWT may have a measurable cumulative effect on performance.

|[field]#password# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#
|The user's password or an Application specific link:../tutorials/authentication-tokens[Authentication Token].

|[field]#twoFactorTrustId# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The Two Factor Trust identifier returned by the Two Factor Login API response. This value be may be provided to bypass the Two Factor challenge when a User has Two Factor enabled.
|===

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/login/request.json[]
----

=== Response

The response for this API contains the User object.

:auth_optional:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_login-response-codes.adoc[]
:auth_optional!:

:login_response:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_user-response-body.adoc[]
:login_response!:

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Response Cookies
|===
|[field]#access_token# [type]#[String]#
|The encoded access token. This cookie is written in the response as an HTTP Only session cookie.

|[field]#refresh_token# [type]#[String]#
|The refresh token. This cookie is written in the response as an HTTP only persistent cookie. The cookie expiration is configured in the JWT
configuration for the application or the global JWT configuration.
|===

== Complete Two Factor Authentication

The Two Factor Login API is used to complete the authentication process when a `242` is returned by the Login API.

=== Request

Complete a login request when a User has Two Factor authentication enabled.

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#no-authentication-required[icon:unlock-alt[role=green]] Complete a Two Factor Login
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/two-factor/login#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Headers
|===
|[field]#X-Forwarded-For# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The IP address of a client requesting authentication. If the IP address is provided it will be stored for login history of the user. It is
generally preferred to specify the IP address in the request body. If it is not provided in the request body this header value will be used
if available, the request body value will take precedence.
|===

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Body
|===
|[field]#applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#
|The Id of the Application the user is to be logged into. If this parameter is omitted the user will still be authenticated but a login
count will not be recorded for an Application.

|[field]#code# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#
|The time based one time use password, also called a Two Factor verification code.

|[field]#device# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The unique device identifier for this request.

Use this parameter to cause a refresh token cookie will be written to the client on the response named `refresh_token` and it will also be
provided in the response body. This value should be unique to the device and the same device id should be sent on subsequent requests for the same device.

|[field]#ipAddress# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The IP address of the end-user that is logging into FusionAuth. If this value is omitted FusionAuth will attempt to obtain the IP address
of the client, the value will be that of the `X-Forwarded-For` header if provided or the last proxy that sent the request. The IP address
will be stored in the User login history.

|[field]#metaData.device.description# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|A human readable description of the device represented by the `device` parameter.

|[field]#metaData.device.lastAccessedAddress# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The IP address of this login request.

|[field]#metaData.device.name# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|A human readable name of the device represented by the `device` parameter.

|[field]#metaData.device.type# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The type of device represented by the `device` parameter. The following types may be specified:

* `BROWSER`
* `DESKTOP`
* `LAPTOP`
* `MOBILE`
* `OTHER`
* `SERVER`
* `TABLET`
* `TV`
* `UNKNOWN`

|[field]#noJWT# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|When this value is set to true a JWT will not be issued as part of this request. The response body will not contain the `token` field,
and the `access_token` and `refresh_token` cookies will not be written to the HTTP response.

|[field]#trustComputer# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional# [default]#defaults to `false`#
|When this value is set to true the response will contain a Two Factor Trust identifier. This can be used on subsequent Login requests to
allow the Two Factor challenge to be bypassed.

|[field]#twoFactorId# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#
|The two factor Id generated and returned in the response body during the initial authentication attempt.

The default duration of this identifier is 5 minutes. This means that you have 5 minutes to complete the request to this API after
calling the Login API. Once the identifier has expired you will need to call the Login API again to restart the process.

This duration can be modified using the System Configuration API or in the FusionAuth UI.
|===

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/login/two-factor/request.json[]
----

=== Response

The response for this API contains the User object.

[cols="1,9a"]
.Response Codes
|===
|Code |Description

|200
|The authentication was successful. The response will contain the User object that was authenticated.

|202
|The user was authenticated successfully. The user is not registered for the application specified by `applicationId` on the request.
The response will contain the User object that was authenticated.

|203
|The user was authenticated successfully. The user is required to change their password, the response will contain the `changePasswordId` to be used
on the link:users#change-a-user-s-password[Change Password] API.

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/login/login-change-password-response.json[]
----

|212
|The user's email address has not yet been verified. The response will contain the User object that was authenticated.

|400
|The request was invalid and/or malformed. The response will contain an link:errors[Errors] JSON Object with the specific errors.

|404
|The `twoFactorId` was invalid or expired. You will need to authenticate again using the link:#authenticate-a-user[Login] API. The response will be empty.

|409
|The user is currently in an action that has prevented login. The response will contain the actions that prevented login.

[source,json]
.Example Response JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/login/login-prevented-response.json[]
----

|410
|The user has expired. The response will be empty.

|421
|The `code` request parameter is not valid. The response will be empty.

|500
|There was an internal error. A stack trace is provided and logged in the FusionAuth log files. The response will be empty.

|503
|The search index is not available or encountered an exception so the request cannot be completed. The response will contain a JSON body.
|===

:login_response:
:two_factor_login_response:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_user-response-body.adoc[]
:login_response!:
:two_factor_login_response!:

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Response Cookies
|===
|[field]#access_token# [type]#[String]#
|The encoded access token. This cookie is written in the response as an HTTP Only session cookie.

|[field]#refresh_token# [type]#[String]#
|The refresh token. This cookie is written in the response as an HTTP Only persistent cookie. The cookie expiration is configured in the
JWT configuration for the application or the global JWT configuration.

|[field]#fusionauth.trust# [type]#[String]#
|The Two Factor Trust identifier. This value is returned when `trustComputer` was set to `true` on the request. This value can be used by
 subsequent login requests to bypass the Two Factor challenge. This cookie is written in the response as an HTTP Only persistent cookie.
|===

== Update Login Instant

Sends a ping to FusionAuth indicating that the user was automatically logged into an application. When using FusionAuth's SSO or your own, you
should call this if the user is already logged in centrally, but accesses an application where they no longer have a session. This helps
correctly track login counts, times and helps with reporting.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[role=red]] Update the login instant for a given User and Application
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/login/``\{userId\}/\{applicationId\}?ipAddress=\{ipAddress\}``#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Headers
|===
|[field]#X-Forwarded-For# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The IP address of a client requesting authentication. If the IP address is provided it will be stored for login history of the user. It is
generally preferred to specify the IP address in the request body. If it is not provided in the request body this header value will be used
if available, the request body value will take precedence.
|===

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#userId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The Id of the user logging in.

|[field]#applicationId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#
|The Id of the Application the user is logging into.

|[field]#ipAddress# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The IP address of the end-user that is logging into FusionAuth. If this value is omitted FusionAuth will attempt to obtain the IP address of
the client, the value will be that of the `X-Forwarded-For` header if provided or the last proxy that sent the request. The IP address will
be stored in the User login history.
|===

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#jwt-authentication[icon:id-badge[role=green]] Update the login instant for a given User and Application using a JWT
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/login``?ipAddress=\{ipAddress\}``#
--

The `userId` and `applicationId` are not required on the request, these values will be retrieved from the identity claims in the JWT payload.

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#ipAddress# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The IP address of the end-user that is logging into FusionAuth. If this value is omitted FusionAuth will attempt to obtain the IP address of
the client, the value will be that of the `X-Forwarded-For` header if provided or the last proxy that sent the request. The IP address will
be stored in the User login history.
|===

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

[cols="1,9"]
.Response Codes
|===
|Code |Description

|200
|The update was successful.

|202
|The user exists but is not registered for the application specified by applicationId on the request.

|400
|The request was invalid and/or malformed. The response will contain an link:errors[Errors] JSON Object with the specific errors.

|401
|You did not supply a valid Authorization header. The header was omitted or your API key was not valid. The response will be empty. See link:authentication[Authentication].

|404
|The user was not found.

|500
|There was an internal error. A stack trace is provided and logged in the FusionAuth log files.

|503
|The search index is not available or encountered an exception so the request cannot be completed. The response will contain a JSON body.
|===

== Logout a User

The Logout API is intended to be used to remove the refresh token and access token cookies if they exist on the client and revoke the refresh token. This
API does nothing if the request does not contain an access token or refresh token cookies.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:authentication#no-authentication-required[icon:unlock-alt[role=green]] Remove the `access_token` and `refresh_token` cookies if they exist on the client.
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/logout``?global=\{global\}&refreshToken=\{refreshToken\}``#
--

[cols="3a,7a"]
[.api]
.Request Parameters
|===
|[field]#global# [type]#[Boolean]# [optional]#Optional#
|When this value is set to true all of the refresh tokens issued to the owner of the provided refresh token will be revoked.

|[field]#refreshToken# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#
|The `refresh_token` as a request parameter instead of coming in via a cookie. If provided this takes precedence over the cookie.
|===

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

[cols="1,9"]
.Response Codes
|===
|Code |Description

|200
|The update was successful.

|500
|There was an internal error. A stack trace is provided and logged in the FusionAuth log files.
|===
