docs/v1/tech/events-webhooks/writing-a-webhook.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Writing a Webhook
description: Learn how to write a Webhook to handle and process events sent by Passport
---

== Webhooks

In order to appropriately handle requests from the Passport event, you must build a simple HTTP Webhook that listens for requests from the Passport event system. Your Webhook must be designed to respond to simple HTTP POST requests with a request body containing `application/json` data as described above.

=== Responses

Your Webhook must handle the RESTful request described above and send back an appropriate response. Your Webhook must send back to Passport an HTTP response code that indicates whether or not the event was successfully handled or not. If your Webhook handled the event properly, it must send back an HTTP response status code of `200`. If there was any type of error or failure, your Webhook must send back an HTTP response status code of `500`.

=== Configuration

Once your Webhook is complete and listening for events, you must configure your Webhook URL in Passport via the Web Interface under System -> Webhooks menu option or via the Webhook API. If you have multiple Webhooks configured for a single Application, the transaction setting for the event or the User Action will dictate if Passport will commit the transaction or not.

=== Example Code

Here's a simple example of a Webhook written in Node using Express. In this example, if the event is a ``user.delete`` event, this code deletes all of the user's Todos.

Also, this examples checks the HTTP headers for an API key. This helps secure your Webhook to prevent malicious requests. You can configure the API key via the FusionAuth Web Interface or the API using the ``headers`` portion of the Webhook configuration.

[source,javascript]
.Example Webhook
----
router.route('/passport-webhook').post((req, res) => {
  const authorization = req.header('Authorization');
  if (authorization !== 'API-KEY') {
    res.status(401).send({
      'errors': [{
        'code': '[notAuthorized]'
      }]
    });
    return;
  }

  const request = req.body;
  if (request.event.type === 'user.delete') {
    todo.deleteAll(request.event.user.id)
      .then(() => {
        res.sendStatus(200);
      })
      .catch(function(err) {
        _handleDatabaseError(res, err);
      });
  }
});
----

Commit message:

Replaced old names with FusionAuth

docs/v1/tech/events-webhooks/writing-a-webhook.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Writing a Webhook
description: Learn how to write a Webhook to handle and process events sent by FusionAuth
---

== Webhooks

In order to appropriately handle requests from the FusionAuth event, you must build a simple HTTP Webhook that listens for requests from the FusionAuth event system. Your Webhook must be designed to respond to simple HTTP POST requests with a request body containing `application/json` data as described above.

=== Responses

Your Webhook must handle the RESTful request described above and send back an appropriate response. Your Webhook must send back to FusionAuth an HTTP response code that indicates whether or not the event was successfully handled or not. If your Webhook handled the event properly, it must send back an HTTP response status code of `200`. If there was any type of error or failure, your Webhook must send back an HTTP response status code of `500`.

=== Configuration

Once your Webhook is complete and listening for events, you must configure your Webhook URL in FusionAuth via the Web Interface under System -> Webhooks menu option or via the Webhook API. If you have multiple Webhooks configured for a single Application, the transaction setting for the event or the User Action will dictate if FusionAuth will commit the transaction or not.

=== Example Code

Here's a simple example of a Webhook written in Node using Express. In this example, if the event is a ``user.delete`` event, this code deletes all of the user's Todos.

Also, this examples checks the HTTP headers for an API key. This helps secure your Webhook to prevent malicious requests. You can configure the API key via the FusionAuth Web Interface or the API using the ``headers`` portion of the Webhook configuration.

[source,javascript]
.Example Webhook
----
router.route('/fusionauth-webhook').post((req, res) => {
  const authorization = req.header('Authorization');
  if (authorization !== 'API-KEY') {
    res.status(401).send({
      'errors': [{
        'code': '[notAuthorized]'
      }]
    });
    return;
  }

  const request = req.body;
  if (request.event.type === 'user.delete') {
    todo.deleteAll(request.event.user.id)
      .then(() => {
        res.sendStatus(200);
      })
      .catch(function(err) {
        _handleDatabaseError(res, err);
      });
  }
});
----
