articles/logins/spa/native-login-form-to-fusionauth-jwts-local-storage-refresh-tokens-cookies.md, before:

---
layout: article
title: Single-page application native login to FusionAuth 
subtitle: Using JWTs and refresh tokens 
description: An explanation of single-page application login using a native login form that submits directly to FusionAuth and uses JWTs in local storage and refresh tokens in cookies
image: articles/logins.png
---

{% capture intro %}
{% include_relative _native-fusionauth-intro.md %}
{% endcapture %}
{{ intro | markdownify }}

## Diagram

**Legend**

```text
() --> indicate request/response bodies
{} --> indicate request parameters
[] --> indicate cookies
```

{% plantuml _diagrams/logins/spa/native-login-form-to-fusionauth-jwts-local-storage-refresh-tokens-cookies.plantuml %}

## Explanation

{% capture steps %}
{% include_relative _shopping-cart-initialize.md %}
{% include_relative _check-local-storage.md %}
{% include_relative _render-login-form.md %}
{% include_relative _call-fusionauth-login-api.md %}
{% include_relative _move-jwt-from-response-to-local-storage.md %}
{% include_relative _shopping-cart-jwt-local-storage-load.md %}
1. A while later, the user's JWT expires and the user clicks on their shopping cart again. The browser recognizes that the JWT has expired and makes a request directly to the JWT refresh API in FusionAuth. This request includes the refresh token cookie
1. FusionAuth looks up the refresh token and returns a new JWT
{% include_relative _move-jwt-from-response-to-local-storage.md %}
{% include_relative _shopping-cart-jwt-local-storage-load.md %}
1. A while later, the user's refresh token expires and the user clicks on their shopping cart again. The browser recognizes that the JWT has expired and makes a request directly to the JWT refresh API in FusionAuth. This request includes the refresh token cookie
1. Since the refresh token has expired, FusionAuth returns a 404 status code
{% include_relative _relogin.md %}
{% include_relative _forums-initialize-no-sso.md %}
{% include_relative _check-local-storage.md %}
{% include_relative _render-login-form.md %}
{% include_relative _call-fusionauth-login-api-overwrite-store-cookie.md %}
{% include_relative _move-jwt-from-response-to-local-storage.md %}
{% include_relative _forums-jwt-local-storage-load.md %}
{% include_relative _stolen-refresh-token-direct-to-fusionauth.md %}
{% include_relative _stolen-jwt-refresh-jwt.md %}
{% endcapture %}
{{ steps | markdownify }}

## Security considerations

This workflow is less secure than other workflows because it is storing the user's JWT in local storage. While local storage provides convenient storage for single-page applications, any JavaScript running on the page has access to it. If an attacker can inject JavaScript into the page, they can begin stealing user's JWTs. The attacker might introduce JavaScript into an open source project through obfuscated code or through a backend exploit of some kind. Many platforms like Wordpress also allow plugins to add JavaScript includes to websites as well. Therefore, ensuring that your JavaScript is secure can be extremely difficult.

This workflow might still be a good solution for some applications. Developers should just weigh the risks associated with local storage of JWTs versus the other workflows we have documented. 

## APIs used

Here are the FusionAuth APIs used in this example:

* [/api/login](/docs/v1/tech/apis/login#authenticate-a-user)
* [/api/jwt/refresh](/docs/v1/tech/apis/jwt#refresh-a-jwt)
* [/oauth2/token](/docs/v1/tech/oauth/endpoints#refresh-token-grant-request)

Commit message:

header and share images on types of logins pages

articles/logins/spa/native-login-form-to-fusionauth-jwts-local-storage-refresh-tokens-cookies.md, after:

---
layout: article
title: Single-page application native login to FusionAuth
subtitle: Using JWTs and refresh tokens
description: An explanation of single-page application login using a native login form that submits directly to FusionAuth and uses JWTs in local storage and refresh tokens in cookies
image: articles/login-types-share-image.jpg
---

{% capture intro %}
{% include_relative _native-fusionauth-intro.md %}
{% endcapture %}
{{ intro | markdownify }}

## Diagram

**Legend**

```text
() --> indicate request/response bodies
{} --> indicate request parameters
[] --> indicate cookies
```

{% plantuml _diagrams/logins/spa/native-login-form-to-fusionauth-jwts-local-storage-refresh-tokens-cookies.plantuml %}

## Explanation

{% capture steps %}
{% include_relative _shopping-cart-initialize.md %}
{% include_relative _check-local-storage.md %}
{% include_relative _render-login-form.md %}
{% include_relative _call-fusionauth-login-api.md %}
{% include_relative _move-jwt-from-response-to-local-storage.md %}
{% include_relative _shopping-cart-jwt-local-storage-load.md %}
1. A while later, the user's JWT expires and the user clicks on their shopping cart again. The browser recognizes that the JWT has expired and makes a request directly to the JWT refresh API in FusionAuth. This request includes the refresh token cookie
1. FusionAuth looks up the refresh token and returns a new JWT
{% include_relative _move-jwt-from-response-to-local-storage.md %}
{% include_relative _shopping-cart-jwt-local-storage-load.md %}
1. A while later, the user's refresh token expires and the user clicks on their shopping cart again. The browser recognizes that the JWT has expired and makes a request directly to the JWT refresh API in FusionAuth. This request includes the refresh token cookie
1. Since the refresh token has expired, FusionAuth returns a 404 status code
{% include_relative _relogin.md %}
{% include_relative _forums-initialize-no-sso.md %}
{% include_relative _check-local-storage.md %}
{% include_relative _render-login-form.md %}
{% include_relative _call-fusionauth-login-api-overwrite-store-cookie.md %}
{% include_relative _move-jwt-from-response-to-local-storage.md %}
{% include_relative _forums-jwt-local-storage-load.md %}
{% include_relative _stolen-refresh-token-direct-to-fusionauth.md %}
{% include_relative _stolen-jwt-refresh-jwt.md %}
{% endcapture %}
{{ steps | markdownify }}

## Security considerations

This workflow is less secure than other workflows because it is storing the user's JWT in local storage. While local storage provides convenient storage for single-page applications, any JavaScript running on the page has access to it. If an attacker can inject JavaScript into the page, they can begin stealing user's JWTs. The attacker might introduce JavaScript into an open source project through obfuscated code or through a backend exploit of some kind. Many platforms like Wordpress also allow plugins to add JavaScript includes to websites as well. Therefore, ensuring that your JavaScript is secure can be extremely difficult.

This workflow might still be a good solution for some applications. Developers should just weigh the risks associated with local storage of JWTs versus the other workflows we have documented.

## APIs used

Here are the FusionAuth APIs used in this example:

* [/api/login](/docs/v1/tech/apis/login#authenticate-a-user)
* [/api/jwt/refresh](/docs/v1/tech/apis/jwt#refresh-a-jwt)
* [/oauth2/token](/docs/v1/tech/oauth/endpoints#refresh-token-grant-request)

[_View All Types_](/articles/logins/types-of-logins)
