site/docs/v1/tech/tutorials/two-factor/twilio-push.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Two Factor with Twilio Push Notifications
description: Learn how to complete Two Factor authentication for a User using FusionAuth's Twilio push integration
---

== Overview

This tutorial will walk through enabling and authenticating a User using the Twilio Push integration. The following is just a suggested
workflow, your implementation may vary.

Using Two Factor using a push service to deliver the verification codes to a User's mobile phone using a text message will generally
provide less friction to the user during the initial configuration. This is because the user does not need a special application installed
on their mobile phone and they will not need to understand how to utilize QR codes.

Ensure you have successfully configured the link:/docs/v1/tech/integrations/twilio/[Twilio integration].

== Generate a secret

A secret may be generated using the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/two-factor#generate-a-secret[Generate a Two Factor Secret] API. Using this API is not required,
you may optionally build your own secret, the API is provided for convenience. This secret will be used to send the User a verification code
to validate the configuration before enabling Two Factor authentication for the User.


The following is an example response from the Generate a Two Factor Secret API.

[source,json]
----
{
  "secret" : "8MJJfCY4ERBtotvenSc3",
  "secretBase32Encoded" : "HBGUUSTGINMTIRKSIJ2G65DWMVXFGYZT"
}
----


== Collect a verification code

Because the secret does not need to be shared with the User, unlike configuring the Google Authenticator application you need only collect a
verification code to ensure they can receive messages on their configured mobile phone.

You will need to ensure the User already has a mobile phone configured, or collect that number as part of this configuration step. The following
is an example form you may build to allow the User to configure this type of authentication.

image::example-enable-push.png[Example Push Configuration,width=1000,role=box-shadow]

In the above example, you'll notice there is a button to _Send code to mobile phone_. You'll utilize the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/two-factor#send-a-two-factor-code[Send a Two Factor Code]
API to send the User a verification code using the secret generated in the previous step and the User's mobile phone.


[.endpoint]
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/two-factor/send#
--

[source,json]
----
include::docs/src/json/two-factor/send/request.json[]
----


== Enable Two Factor Authentication

The secret and code are then provided on this request to enable Two Factor for the User.

In this example we'll use the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/two-factor#enable-two-factor[Enable Two Factor] API. This API will validate that the provided
`code` is valid using the provided `secret`.

This example demonstrates enabling Two Factor for a User with the specified Id.

[.endpoint]
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/user/two-factor/`1ff649bc-fafe-4cd4-af26-f22c3eda3d82`#
--

[source,json]
----
{
  "code": "423187",
  "secret": "8MJJfCY4ERBtotvenSc3",
  "delivery": "TextMessage"
}
----

== Authentication

Once a User has enabled Two Factor authentication, a `242` status code will be returned from the Login API with a response body that will
include a Two Factor Id.

The following is an example response from the Login API when a `242` response code is returned.

[source,json]
----
include::docs/src/json/login/login-two-factor-response.json[]
----

== Two Factor Authentication

To complete authentication you will need present the User with an additional form to collect a verification code. The User will enter the
verification code sent to their mobile phone as a result of successfully calling the Login API in the previous step If additional codes
need to be sent to the User during the authentication process the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/two-factor#send-a-two-factor-code[Send a Two Factor Code] API
may be called with the `twoFactorId`.

Using the Two Factor Id provided by the Login API response along with the verification code we can then complete authentication by making a
request to the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/login#complete-two-factor-authentication[Complete Two Factor Authentication] API.

[.endpoint]
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/two-factor/login#
--

[source,json]
----
include::docs/src/json/login/two-factor/request.json[]
----

Commit message:

Added note about premium feature change to twilio tutorial.

site/docs/v1/tech/tutorials/two-factor/twilio-push.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Two Factor with Twilio Push Notifications
description: Learn how to complete Two Factor authentication for a User using FusionAuth's Twilio push integration
---

== Overview

This tutorial will walk through enabling and authenticating a User using the Twilio Push integration. The following is just a suggested
workflow, your implementation may vary.

Using Two Factor using a push service to deliver the verification codes to a User's mobile phone using a text message will generally
provide less friction to the user during the initial configuration. This is because the user does not need a special application installed
on their mobile phone and they will not need to understand how to utilize QR codes.

Ensure you have successfully configured the link:/docs/v1/tech/integrations/twilio/[Twilio integration].

*Twilio MFA will be a premium feature in Q1 2021. link:/community/forum/topic/689/upcoming-mfa-changes[Learn more.]*

== Generate a secret

A secret may be generated using the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/two-factor#generate-a-secret[Generate a Two Factor Secret] API. Using this API is not required,
you may optionally build your own secret, the API is provided for convenience. This secret will be used to send the User a verification code
to validate the configuration before enabling Two Factor authentication for the User.


The following is an example response from the Generate a Two Factor Secret API.

[source,json]
----
{
  "secret" : "8MJJfCY4ERBtotvenSc3",
  "secretBase32Encoded" : "HBGUUSTGINMTIRKSIJ2G65DWMVXFGYZT"
}
----


== Collect a verification code

Because the secret does not need to be shared with the User, unlike configuring the Google Authenticator application you need only collect a
verification code to ensure they can receive messages on their configured mobile phone.

You will need to ensure the User already has a mobile phone configured, or collect that number as part of this configuration step. The following
is an example form you may build to allow the User to configure this type of authentication.

image::example-enable-push.png[Example Push Configuration,width=1000,role=box-shadow]

In the above example, you'll notice there is a button to _Send code to mobile phone_. You'll utilize the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/two-factor#send-a-two-factor-code[Send a Two Factor Code]
API to send the User a verification code using the secret generated in the previous step and the User's mobile phone.


[.endpoint]
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/two-factor/send#
--

[source,json]
----
include::docs/src/json/two-factor/send/request.json[]
----


== Enable Two Factor Authentication

The secret and code are then provided on this request to enable Two Factor for the User.

In this example we'll use the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/two-factor#enable-two-factor[Enable Two Factor] API. This API will validate that the provided
`code` is valid using the provided `secret`.

This example demonstrates enabling Two Factor for a User with the specified Id.

[.endpoint]
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/user/two-factor/`1ff649bc-fafe-4cd4-af26-f22c3eda3d82`#
--

[source,json]
----
{
  "code": "423187",
  "secret": "8MJJfCY4ERBtotvenSc3",
  "delivery": "TextMessage"
}
----

== Authentication

Once a User has enabled Two Factor authentication, a `242` status code will be returned from the Login API with a response body that will
include a Two Factor Id.

The following is an example response from the Login API when a `242` response code is returned.

[source,json]
----
include::docs/src/json/login/login-two-factor-response.json[]
----

== Two Factor Authentication

To complete authentication you will need present the User with an additional form to collect a verification code. The User will enter the
verification code sent to their mobile phone as a result of successfully calling the Login API in the previous step If additional codes
need to be sent to the User during the authentication process the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/two-factor#send-a-two-factor-code[Send a Two Factor Code] API
may be called with the `twoFactorId`.

Using the Two Factor Id provided by the Login API response along with the verification code we can then complete authentication by making a
request to the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/login#complete-two-factor-authentication[Complete Two Factor Authentication] API.

[.endpoint]
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/two-factor/login#
--

[source,json]
----
include::docs/src/json/login/two-factor/request.json[]
----
