_drafts/6-ways-fusionauth-api-gdpr-ready.md, before:

---
layout: blog-post
title: 6 Ways The FusionAuth API Is GDPR Ready
author: Bryan Giese
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
categories:
- Passport
- Resources
- Events
tags:
- API
- Passport
- CIAM
- identity
- gdpr
---
NEED IMAGE
The GDPR is a complex regulation, but at its most basic level it requires organizations to provide “data protection by design and default.” FusionAuth is built with a powerful REST API that gives developers the tools they need to adhere to the requirements of the GDPR with quickly and easily. On May 23 FusionAuth’s CEO Brian Pontarelli presented to Colorado’s technology leaders about how the GDPR and data privacy will affect US companies, and went into detail about how the FusionAuth API is well-suited to help companies stay GDPR compliant and avoid risks of fines and data restrictions for data protection violations.
<!--more-->
## Principles of Data Protection

Instead of defining explicit processes that could quickly become out of date, the GDPR outlines basic principles to guide data collectors, controllers and processors to establish and maintain data privacy throughout their customer’s lifecycle. This provides a flexible framework of concepts so each company can comply with the regulations in a way that best fits their data structure and usage model.</p>
<p>The FusionAuth API was designed with a similar conceptual framework and provides developers with a toolbox of functionality that can easily do what GDPR demands. In his presentation, Brian outlines the specific code that the FusionAuth API uses to allow developers to quickly implement data-protecting features with minimal effort. He covers some of the most important aspects including:
- Providing ALL user data when requested
- Deleting ALL user data
- Correcting and restricting data for review
- Protecting data software and hardware
- Identity security for passwords, hashing, and storage
- Consent management and history storage

Watch the video below to learn more about the strategies used by the FusionAuth API, and if you have additional questions on the challenges of identity management and the GDRP, please <a href="/contact-sales?utm_source=post&amp;utm_medium=internal&amp;utm_campaign=site" >contact us</a>.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Fah18FYbBHk?rel=0&amp;showinfo=0" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen="allowfullscreen"></iframe>

If you are interested in the full presentation covering how the GDPR impacts identity management, email marketing, and online ad technology, you can <a href="/blog/2018/05/29/gdpr-and-data-privacy-summary/?utm_source=post&amp;utm_medium=internal&amp;utm_campaign=site" >view the video and download the resources here</a>.

## Learn More About the FusionAuth API

FusionAuth is designed to be the most flexible and secure Customer Identity and Access Management solution available on the market. More than a login tool, we provide registration, data search, user segmentation and advanced user management across applications.

Find out more about FusionAuth</a> and sign up for a free trial today. LINK HERE

Commit message:

Poss ready for images and to select dates.

_drafts/6-ways-fusionauth-api-gdpr-ready.md, after:

---
layout: blog-post
title: 6 Ways The FusionAuth API Is GDPR Ready
description: FusionAuth is ready for the GDPR in 6 important ways.
author: Bryan Giese
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
categories:
- FusionAuth
- Resources
- Events
tags:
- API
- FusionAuth
- CIAM
- identity
- gdpr
image: blogs/NEEDIMAGE
---

The GDPR is a complex regulation, but at its most basic level it requires organizations to provide “data protection by design and default.” FusionAuth is built with a powerful REST API that gives developers the tools they need to adhere to the requirements of the GDPR with quickly and easily. On May 23, 2018 FusionAuth’s CEO Brian Pontarelli presented to Colorado’s technology leaders about how the GDPR and data privacy will affect US companies, and went into detail about how the FusionAuth API is well-suited to help companies stay GDPR compliant and avoid risks of fines and data restrictions for data protection violations.
<!--more-->
## Principles of Data Protection

Instead of defining explicit processes that could quickly become out of date, the GDPR outlines basic principles to guide data collectors, controllers and processors to establish and maintain data privacy throughout their customer’s lifecycle. This provides a flexible framework of concepts so each company can comply with the regulations in a way that best fits their data structure and usage model.

The FusionAuth API was designed with a similar conceptual framework and provides developers with a toolbox of functionality that can easily do what GDPR demands. In his presentation, Brian outlines the specific code that the FusionAuth API uses to allow developers to quickly implement data-protecting features with minimal effort. He covers some of the most important aspects including:
- Providing ALL user data when requested
- Deleting ALL user data
- Correcting and restricting data for review
- Protecting data software and hardware
- Identity security for passwords, hashing, and storage
- Consent management and history storage

For more information download our NEEDLINK [**Developer’s Guide to the GDPR**](https://fusionauth.io/resources/developers-guide-gdpr "Get the Developer's Guide to the GDPR"). It covers the essential information developers need to understand to stay compliant and avoid steep fines possible under the regulation. If you have additional questions on the challenges of identity management and the GDRP, please [contact us](https://fusionauth.io/contact "Contact Us").

## Learn More About FusionAuth

FusionAuth is designed to be the most flexible and secure Customer Identity and Access Management solution available at the best price. We provide registration, login, SSO, MFA, data search, social login, user management and more, 100% free for unlimited users.

[Find out more about FusionAuth](https://fusionauth.io/ "FusionAuth Home") and download it today.
