site/docs/v1/tech/lambdas/apple-reconcile.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Apple Reconcile
description: An overview of the Apple Reconcile lambda
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== Apple Reconcile lambda

When an Apple identity provider is used to complete a federated login request FusionAuth will use the email address to reconcile user. You may optionally utilize a lambda to customize the user and user registration during this authentication event.

When you create a new lambda using the FusionAuth UI we will provide you an empty function for you to implement.

If you are using the API to create the lambda you will need to ensure your function has the following signature:

[source,javascript]
----
function reconcile(user, registration, idToken) {
  // Lambda code goes here
}
----

This lambda must contain a function named `reconcile` that takes three parameters. The parameters that the lambda is passed are:

* `user` - the FusionAuth User object
* `registration` - the FusionAuth UserRegistration object
* `idToken` - the JSON payload of the validated and decoded Id Token returned from Apple

The two FusionAuth objects are well documented here in the link:../apis/users[User API] and link:../apis/registrations[Registration API] documentation. The Id Token object that contains the payload returned by Apple and may contain well known OpenID Connect registered claims as well as any custom claims defined by Apple.

== Assigning the lambda

Once a lambda is created, you may assign it to the Apple identity provider in the IdP configuration.

== Default lambda

A default Apple reconcile lambda is available in FusionAuth that may be used or modified. The default Apple lambda function is documented below.

[source,javascript]
----
// This is the default Apple reconcile, modify this to your liking.
function reconcile(user, registration, idToken) {

  // Un-comment this line to see the idToken object printed to the event log
  // console.info(JSON.stringify(idToken, null, 2));

  // During the first login attempt, the user object will be available which may contain first and last name.
  if (idToken.user && idToken.user.name) {
    user.firstName = idToken.user.name.firstName || user.firstName;
    user.lastName = idToken.user.name.lastName || user.lastName;
  }
}
----

=== Limitations

The `user.username` field on the user will be ignored if modified by the lambda function. This is to mitigate the risks of an account takeover due to a non globally unique identifier.

Commit message:

Augment text around assigning the lambda to an IdP configuration.

site/docs/v1/tech/lambdas/apple-reconcile.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Apple Reconcile
description: An overview of the Apple Reconcile lambda
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== Apple Reconcile lambda

When an Apple identity provider is used to complete a federated login request FusionAuth will use the email address to reconcile user. You may optionally utilize a lambda to customize the user and user registration during this authentication event.

When you create a new lambda using the FusionAuth UI we will provide you an empty function for you to implement.

If you are using the API to create the lambda you will need to ensure your function has the following signature:

[source,javascript]
----
function reconcile(user, registration, idToken) {
  // Lambda code goes here
}
----

This lambda must contain a function named `reconcile` that takes three parameters. The parameters that the lambda is passed are:

* `user` - the FusionAuth User object
* `registration` - the FusionAuth UserRegistration object
* `idToken` - the JSON payload of the validated and decoded Id Token returned from Apple

The two FusionAuth objects are well documented here in the link:../apis/users[User API] and link:../apis/registrations[Registration API] documentation. The Id Token object that contains the payload returned by Apple and may contain well known OpenID Connect registered claims as well as any custom claims defined by Apple.

== Assigning the lambda

Once a lambda is created, you may assign it to the Apple identity provider in the IdP configuration.

Navigate to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> Identity Providers# and select your existing Apple configuration or click [breadcrumb]#Add provider# and select Apple if it has not yet been configured.

== Default lambda

A default Apple reconcile lambda is available in FusionAuth that may be used or modified. The default Apple lambda function is documented below.

[source,javascript]
----
// This is the default Apple reconcile, modify this to your liking.
function reconcile(user, registration, idToken) {

  // Un-comment this line to see the idToken object printed to the event log
  // console.info(JSON.stringify(idToken, null, 2));

  // During the first login attempt, the user object will be available which may contain first and last name.
  if (idToken.user && idToken.user.name) {
    user.firstName = idToken.user.name.firstName || user.firstName;
    user.lastName = idToken.user.name.lastName || user.lastName;
  }
}
----

=== Limitations

The `user.username` field on the user will be ignored if modified by the lambda function. This is to mitigate the risks of an account takeover due to a non globally unique identifier.
