site/docs/v1/tech/lambdas/facebook-reconcile.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Facebook Reconcile
description: An overview of the Facebook Reconcile lambda
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== Facebook Reconcile lambda

When an Facebook identity provider is used to complete a federated login request FusionAuth will use the email address to reconcile user. You may optionally utilize a lambda to customize the user and user registration during this authentication event.

When you create a new lambda using the FusionAuth UI we will provide you an empty function for you to implement.

If you are using the API to create the lambda you will need to ensure your function has the following signature:

[source,javascript]
----
function reconcile(user, registration, facebookUser) {
  // Lambda code goes here
}
----

This lambda must contain a function named `reconcile` that takes three parameters. The parameters that the lambda is passed are:

* `user` - the FusionAuth User object
* `registration` - the FusionAuth UserRegistration object
* `facebookUser` - the User returned from the Facebook ME API

The two FusionAuth objects are well documented here in the link:../apis/users[User API] and link:../apis/registrations[Registration API] documentation. The `facebookUser` may contain various user claims depending upon the user's Facebook configuration.

== Assigning the lambda

Once a lambda is created, you may assign it to the Facebook identity provider in the IdP configuration.

== Default lambda

A default Facebook reconcile lambda is available in FusionAuth that may be used or modified. The default Facebook lambda function is documented below.

[source,javascript]
----
// This is the default Facebook reconcile, modify this to your liking.
function reconcile(user, registration, facebookUser) {

  // Un-comment this line to see the facebookUser object printed to the event log
  // console.info(JSON.stringify(facebookUser, null, 2));

  user.firstName = facebookUser.first_name;
  user.middleName = facebookUser.middle_name;
  user.lastName = facebookUser.last_name;
  user.fullName = facebookUser.name;

  if (facebookUser.picture && !facebookUser.picture.data.is_silhouette) {
    user.imageUrl = facebookUser.picture.data.url;
  }

  if (facebookUser.birthday) {
    // Convert MM/dd/yyyy -> YYYY-MM-DD
    var parts = facebookUser.birthday.split('/');
    user.birthDate = parts[2] + -' +  parts[0] + '-' +  parts[1];
  }
}
----

=== Limitations

The `user.username` field on the user will be ignored if modified by the lambda function. This is to mitigate the risks of an account takeover due to a non globally unique identifier.

Commit message:

Augment text around assigning the lambda to an IdP configuration.

site/docs/v1/tech/lambdas/facebook-reconcile.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Facebook Reconcile
description: An overview of the Facebook Reconcile lambda
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== Facebook Reconcile lambda

When an Facebook identity provider is used to complete a federated login request FusionAuth will use the email address to reconcile user. You may optionally utilize a lambda to customize the user and user registration during this authentication event.

When you create a new lambda using the FusionAuth UI we will provide you an empty function for you to implement.

If you are using the API to create the lambda you will need to ensure your function has the following signature:

[source,javascript]
----
function reconcile(user, registration, facebookUser) {
  // Lambda code goes here
}
----

This lambda must contain a function named `reconcile` that takes three parameters. The parameters that the lambda is passed are:

* `user` - the FusionAuth User object
* `registration` - the FusionAuth UserRegistration object
* `facebookUser` - the User returned from the Facebook ME API

The two FusionAuth objects are well documented here in the link:../apis/users[User API] and link:../apis/registrations[Registration API] documentation. The `facebookUser` may contain various user claims depending upon the user's Facebook configuration.

== Assigning the lambda

Once a lambda is created, you may assign it to the Facebook identity provider in the IdP configuration.

Navigate to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> Identity Providers# and select your existing Facebook configuration or click [breadcrumb]#Add provider# and select Facebook if it has not yet been configured.

== Default lambda

A default Facebook reconcile lambda is available in FusionAuth that may be used or modified. The default Facebook lambda function is documented below.

[source,javascript]
----
// This is the default Facebook reconcile, modify this to your liking.
function reconcile(user, registration, facebookUser) {

  // Un-comment this line to see the facebookUser object printed to the event log
  // console.info(JSON.stringify(facebookUser, null, 2));

  user.firstName = facebookUser.first_name;
  user.middleName = facebookUser.middle_name;
  user.lastName = facebookUser.last_name;
  user.fullName = facebookUser.name;

  if (facebookUser.picture && !facebookUser.picture.data.is_silhouette) {
    user.imageUrl = facebookUser.picture.data.url;
  }

  if (facebookUser.birthday) {
    // Convert MM/dd/yyyy -> YYYY-MM-DD
    var parts = facebookUser.birthday.split('/');
    user.birthDate = parts[2] + -' +  parts[0] + '-' +  parts[1];
  }
}
----

=== Limitations

The `user.username` field on the user will be ignored if modified by the lambda function. This is to mitigate the risks of an account takeover due to a non globally unique identifier.
