site/docs/v1/tech/lambdas/hypr-reconcile.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: HYPR Reconcile
description: An overview of the HYPR Reconcile lambda
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== HYPR Reconcile lambda

When an HYPR identity provider is used to complete a federated login request FusionAuth will use the email address to reconcile user. You may optionally utilize a lambda to customize the user and user registration during this authentication event.

When you create a new lambda using the FusionAuth UI we will provide you an empty function for you to implement.

If you are using the API to create the lambda you will need to ensure your function has the following signature:

[source,javascript]
----
function reconcile(user, registration) {
  // Lambda code goes here
}
----

This lambda must contain a function named `reconcile` that takes three parameters. The parameters that the lambda is passed are:

* `user` - the FusionAuth User object
* `registration` - the FusionAuth UserRegistration object

The two FusionAuth objects are well documented here in the link:../apis/users[User API] and link:../apis/registrations[Registration API] documentation.

== Assigning the lambda

Once a lambda is created, you may assign it to the HYPR identity provider in the IdP configuration.

== Example lambda

There is not a default HYPR reconcile lambda provided by FusionAuth. The following is an example lambda you can use as a starting point.

[source,javascript]
----
// This is an example HYPR reconcile, modify this to your liking.
function reconcile(user, registration) {
  console.info('Hello world!');
}
----

=== Limitations

The `user.username` field on the user will be ignored if modified by the lambda function. This is to mitigate the risks of an account takeover due to a non globally unique identifier.

Commit message:

Augment text around assigning the lambda to an IdP configuration.

site/docs/v1/tech/lambdas/hypr-reconcile.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: HYPR Reconcile
description: An overview of the HYPR Reconcile lambda
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== HYPR Reconcile lambda

When an HYPR identity provider is used to complete a federated login request FusionAuth will use the email address to reconcile user. You may optionally utilize a lambda to customize the user and user registration during this authentication event.

When you create a new lambda using the FusionAuth UI we will provide you an empty function for you to implement.

If you are using the API to create the lambda you will need to ensure your function has the following signature:

[source,javascript]
----
function reconcile(user, registration) {
  // Lambda code goes here
}
----

This lambda must contain a function named `reconcile` that takes three parameters. The parameters that the lambda is passed are:

* `user` - the FusionAuth User object
* `registration` - the FusionAuth UserRegistration object

The two FusionAuth objects are well documented here in the link:../apis/users[User API] and link:../apis/registrations[Registration API] documentation.

== Assigning the lambda

Once a lambda is created, you may assign it to the HYPR identity provider in the IdP configuration.

Navigate to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> Identity Providers# and select your existing HYPR configuration or click [breadcrumb]#Add provider# and select HYPR if it has not yet been configured.

== Example lambda

There is not a default HYPR reconcile lambda provided by FusionAuth. The following is an example lambda you can use as a starting point.

[source,javascript]
----
// This is an example HYPR reconcile, modify this to your liking.
function reconcile(user, registration) {
  console.info('Hello world!');
}
----

=== Limitations

The `user.username` field on the user will be ignored if modified by the lambda function. This is to mitigate the risks of an account takeover due to a non globally unique identifier.
