site/docs/v1/tech/lambdas/samlv2-response-populate.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: SAML v2 Populate lambda
description: An overview of the SAML v2 populate lambda
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== SAML v2 Populate lambda

In order to handle complex integrations with SAML service providers, you can specify a lambda to be used by the FusionAuth SAML identity provider. This lambda will be invoked prior to the SAML response being sent back to the service provider.

When you create a new lambda using the FusionAuth UI we will provide you an empty function for you to implement. If you are using the API to create the lambda you will need to ensure your function has the following signature:

[source,javascript]
----
function populate(samlResponse, user, registration) {
  // Lambda code goes here
}
----

This lambda must contain a function named `populate` that takes three parameters. The parameters that the lambda is passed are:

* `samlResponse` - the SAML v2 response object
* `user` - the FusionAuth User object
* `registration` - the FusionAuth UserRegistration object

The two FusionAuth objects are well documented here in the link:../apis/users[User API] and link:../apis/registrations[Registration API] documentation. The SAML response object mimics the format of the XML document, but is designed to be much simpler to use than dealing with the DOM object model. Here is a list of the fields you have access to manipulate in the SAML response:

include::docs/v1/tech/lambdas/_saml-response-fields.adoc[]

== Example lambda

Here is an example of a simple Lambda that sets a few extra parameters into the SAML response from the User, including some custom data:

[source,javascript]
----
function populate(samlResponse, user, registration) {
  // Set an attribute named 'roles' from the User assigned roles for this registration
  samlResponse.assertion.attributes['roles'] = registration.roles || [];

  // Set an attribute named 'favoriteColor' using the custom data attribute named 'favoriteColor'
  samlResponse.assertion.attributes['favoriteColor'] = [user.data.favoriteColor];
}
----

Commit message:

Correct 403 message for Forgot Password API, and add notes about configuring each lambda.

site/docs/v1/tech/lambdas/samlv2-response-populate.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: SAML v2 Populate lambda
description: An overview of the SAML v2 populate lambda
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== SAML v2 Populate lambda

In order to handle complex integrations with SAML service providers, you can specify a lambda to be used by the FusionAuth SAML identity provider. This lambda will be invoked prior to the SAML response being sent back to the service provider.

When you create a new lambda using the FusionAuth UI we will provide you an empty function for you to implement. If you are using the API to create the lambda you will need to ensure your function has the following signature:

[source,javascript]
----
function populate(samlResponse, user, registration) {
  // Lambda code goes here
}
----

This lambda must contain a function named `populate` that takes three parameters. The parameters that the lambda is passed are:

* `samlResponse` - the SAML v2 response object
* `user` - the FusionAuth User object
* `registration` - the FusionAuth UserRegistration object

The two FusionAuth objects are well documented here in the link:../apis/users[User API] and link:../apis/registrations[Registration API] documentation. The SAML response object mimics the format of the XML document, but is designed to be much simpler to use than dealing with the DOM object model. Here is a list of the fields you have access to manipulate in the SAML response:

include::docs/v1/tech/lambdas/_saml-response-fields.adoc[]

== Assigning the lambda

Once a lambda is created, you may assign it to one or more applications in the SAML configuration. See the SAML tab in the Application configuration.

== Example lambda

Here is an example of a simple Lambda that sets a few extra parameters into the SAML response from the User, including some custom data:

[source,javascript]
----
function populate(samlResponse, user, registration) {
  // Set an attribute named 'roles' from the User assigned roles for this registration
  samlResponse.assertion.attributes['roles'] = registration.roles || [];

  // Set an attribute named 'favoriteColor' using the custom data attribute named 'favoriteColor'
  samlResponse.assertion.attributes['favoriteColor'] = [user.data.favoriteColor];
}
----
