= Introduction:

FusionAuth is an authentication provider that simplifies the process of
adding authentication features to applications without rebuilding common
components.

This guide is designed to provide instructions for Customer Service
representatives on using FusionAuth, an authentication provider, to
support users with their authentication needs. Customer Service
representatives play a vital role in assisting users who may encounter
issues related to login, password resets, and account lockouts.
FusionAuth simplifies these processes by allowing Customer Service
representatives to manage user accounts and perform necessary actions
without having to rebuild common authentication components. By following
this guide, you will learn how to use FusionAuth's Admin UI to reset
passwords, verify user information, log users out, remove actions that
locked accounts, and perform soft delete/undelete operations.

== Who is this Document For?

This document is intended for Customer Service representatives who are
responsible for assisting users with authentication-related issues.
Customer Service representatives typically interact with users who may
have trouble accessing their accounts, forgetting passwords, or
experiencing other login-related challenges. By using FusionAuth's
features, Customer Service representatives can efficiently address these
concerns, enhance user experience, and help maintain a secure
authentication environment.

== Why Customer Service Representatives Might Use FusionAuth:

Customer Service representatives may need to utilize FusionAuth for
various reasons. Here is an example scenario to illustrate why Customer
Service representatives might perform specific actions:

Suppose a user contacts Customer Service reporting that they have
forgotten their account password and are unable to log in. In such a
case, a Customer Service representative can use FusionAuth to reset the
user's password, allowing them to regain access to their account without
the need for manual intervention from developers or administrators. By
using FusionAuth's Admin UI, Customer Service representatives can
securely manage user accounts, resolve authentication-related issues
promptly, and provide a seamless user experience.

Now, let's dive into the step-by-step instructions for setting up the
Admin UI and the common operations performed by Customer Service
representatives using FusionAuth's Admin UI:

== Setting up the FusionAuth Admin UI for Customer Service Reps:

[loweralpha]
* Log in to the FusionAuth Admin UI using your admin credentials.

image::admin-guide/user-support-guide/image1.png[image,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped top-cropped]

You will be presented with the interface that looks like the one below:

image::admin-guide/user-support-guide/image2.png[image,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped top-cropped]

And since you initially have the admin role, you will be presented with
the entire dashboard with operations related to this role.

* Navigate to "Users" in the left sidebar.

image::admin-guide/user-support-guide/image3.png[image,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped top-cropped]

And navigate to the user listed in the result page. Click on that blue
icon under the Action column in that result set to “Manage” the User.

image::admin-guide/user-support-guide/image4.png[image,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped top-cropped]

* Navigate to the blue button in the Action column and Click on that "Edit" Icon to Edit Your User Roles and you will be presented with the interface below:

image::admin-guide/user-support-guide/image5.png[image,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped top-cropped]

Scroll down and view the entire Roles panel. First, you need to untick
the admin role selected so that you will be able to assign the proper
roles. In this case, "user_support_manager" and "user_support_viewer". After
unticking the admin role, navigate to the two roles we are interested in
and tick them both just like below:

image::admin-guide/user-support-guide/image6.png[image,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped top-cropped]

Go ahead and save your changes, and you will notice a few changes
including the dashboard.

image::admin-guide/user-support-guide/image7.png[image,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped top-cropped]

We now have access to the information related to the two roles we
assigned ourselves, and if you look on the left sidebar, a lot of stuff
has vanished. If we navigate to "Users," we will see that our user
now has the two roles we assigned.

image::admin-guide/user-support-guide/image8.png[image,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped top-cropped]

== Basic Operations in FusionAuth Admin UI:

The FusionAuth Admin UI provides a user-friendly interface for
performing basic operations. Here are some common tasks you can perform:


Reset a User's Password:

This operation focuses on helping users regain access to their accounts
by resetting their passwords in case they forget or have issues logging in
with their credentials.

* Log in to the FusionAuth Admin UI.

* Search for the user whose password needs to be reset.

* Click on the user's name to open their user details page.

* Under the "Actions" tab, click on "Send Password Reset."

* Follow the on-screen instruction to submit your request to reset the user's password.

image::admin-guide/user-support-guide/image9.png[image,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped top-cropped]

image::admin-guide/user-support-guide/image10.png[image,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped top-cropped]

Verify User Information:

We often verify user information to review and validate user information
for account-related inquiries or troubleshooting.

* Log in to the FusionAuth Admin UI.

* Search for the user whose information needs to be verified.

* Click on the user's name to open their user details page.

* Review the user's information, such as email, username, etc., to verify its accuracy.

Here you can actually edit the information if need be and then save by
clicking on the blue save icon on the user interface below.

image::admin-guide/user-support-guide/image11.png[image,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped top-cropped]

Log Out a User:

We might need to terminate a user's active sessions for security or
troubleshooting purposes. And there is also an option for that, all you
have to do is:

* Log in to the FusionAuth Admin UI.

* Search for the user who needs to be logged out.

* Click on the user's name to open their user details page.

* Under the "Actions" tab, click on "Log Out."

* Confirm the log out action to terminate the user's active
sessions.

* Remove an Action that Locked an Account:

Keep in mind that "Soft Delete" and "Remove an Action that Locked an
Account" are different:

In FusionAuth, "soft delete" refers to marking a user account as deleted
without permanently removing it. On the other hand, "remove an action"
allows you to specifically address and modify the action that caused the
account lockout. While unlocking the account is one option, FusionAuth
also provides flexibility to change or remove the action entirely
through its Admin UI:

* Log in to the FusionAuth Admin UI.

* Search for the user whose account is locked.

* Click on the user's name to open their user details page.

* Under the "Actions" tab, find the actions that have
locked the user’s account.

* Submit the request to remove or resolve the action that caused
the account lockout.

image::admin-guide/user-support-guide/image12.png[image,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped top-cropped]

image::admin-guide/user-support-guide/image13.png[image,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped top-cropped]

Soft Delete/Undelete a User:

Soft delete allows you to temporarily disable a user account while
retaining its data. This is useful when dealing with temporary account
suspensions or other similar situations. Permanent deletion, on the
other hand, involves permanently removing a user's account and
associated data from the system.

* Log in to the FusionAuth Admin UI.

* Search for the user who is soft-deleted.

* Click on the user's name to open their user details page.

* Under the "Actions" tab, click on "Soft Delete" or "Undelete"
as per your requirement.

* Confirm the action to either soft delete or undelete the user.

image::admin-guide/user-support-guide/image14.png[image,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped top-cropped]