site/docs/v1/tech/core-concepts/integration-points.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Integration Points
description: FusionAuth easily integrates with existing or new applications 
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== Overview

You typically are going to integrate FusionAuth into one or more applications. User data will live in FusionAuth (possibly in sync with other data stores) and users will auth against it. 

FusionAuth is a developer first platform and there are a large number of ways to integrate it into your new or existing applications.

=== Login Options

There are three main ways to have your users sign in: OAuth/OIDC or the Login API.

==== OAuth/OIDC 

The first option is to use OAuth/OIDC. These are both standards and FusionAuth should work with any library or application which supports them. If you find a library which supports OAuth or OIDC and does not work with FusionAuth, please https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-issues/issues/[open a bug], as we want to know about it. You can also use a link:/docs/v1/tech/client-libraries/[FusionAuth client library].

Using OAuth/OIDC lets your users authenticate and authorize; they'll receive the responses link:/docs/v1/tech/oauth/[documented for each grant]. 

When you use this option, the data your client receives about the user is limited. You can put custom claims in your JWT using link:/docs/v1/tech/lambdas/[lambdas] if what you need is in the user or the registration objects. 

If this level of integration meets your needs, you'll have more portability and less lock-in to FusionAuth.

==== Login API

You can also use the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/login[Login API] to sign your users in directly. In this case, you will likely use one of the link:/docs/v1/tech/client-libraries/[FusionAuth client libraries].

When a user signs in with this API, you receive the entire user object, as well as the JWT.

When you build on top of the Login API, you're responsible for building the user interface for all login use cases. This gives you more control, as well. You can still use other FusionAuth provided user interfaces for use cases such as the forgot password flow.

==== Federated Authentication

Federated authentication, where FusionAuth isn't the system of record for users, is provided by link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/connectors/[Connectors] and link:/docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/[Identity Providers].

Please consult Connector or Identity Provider documentation for more.

=== FusionAuth APIs

Whether you use the Login API or an OAuth grant, you can use additional link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/[FusionAuth APIs] in your application. 

These allow your application to access and modify data not available from OIDC/OAuth. 

Tasks like registering a user to an application, removing them from a group, capturing a consent, or capturing custom data all are possible via custom APIs.

The upside of using these is the ability to leverage the FusionAuth data model and functionality. The downside is that your application is coupled to FusionAuth.

=== Hosted Login Pages

You'll see the phrase "hosted login pages" used throughout the FusionAuth site. These are all the pages that your end user sees when you are hosting your login experience on FusionAuth, as opposed to within your application. These pages are link:/docs/v1/tech/themes/[themeable].

Using the hosted login pages has a number of advantages. All of the complexity of a number of different use cases is handled by FusionAuth. These include, but are not limited to, the following:

* Sign in
* Sign out
* Registration
* Forgot password
* Email verification
* Changing a password
* Two factor authentication
* Passwordless authentication

You also get single sign on (SSO) between your applications when you use the hosted login pages.

The alternative to using the hosted login pages is building your own login experience. 

You can then use the APIs or an OAuth grant to authenticate your user against FusionAuth. This alternative gives you more control at the cost of more development effort.


=== Other Integration Points

There are a number of other integration points in FusionAuth beyond the APIs.

* link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/connectors/[Connectors] allow you to authenticate against external user data sources, and optionally migrate users into FusionAuth.
* link:/docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/[Identity Providers] allow you to federate authentication decisions to social or standards based providers.
* link:/docs/v1/tech/lambdas/[Lambdas] allow you to run business logic at certain points in the authentication lifecycle.
* link:/docs/v1/tech/plugins/password-encryptors/[Password plugins] allow you to use a custom hashing method. This allows you to import user data from existing systems without requiring any user password changes.
* link:/docs/v1/tech/events-webhooks/[Webhooks] allow you to send data to external systems when certain FusionAuth events occur.

Commit message:

Running through the google docs grammar checker.
Also a bit of wordsmithing.

site/docs/v1/tech/core-concepts/integration-points.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Integration Points
description: FusionAuth easily integrates with existing or new applications 
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== Overview

You typically integrate FusionAuth into one or more applications. User data will live in FusionAuth (possibly synced with other data stores) and users will auth against it. 

FusionAuth is a developer first platform and there are a large number of ways to integrate it into your new or existing applications.

=== Login Options

There are three main ways to have your users sign in: OAuth/OIDC, the Login API, or federated authentication.

==== OAuth/OIDC 

The first option is to use OAuth/OIDC. These are both standards and FusionAuth should work with any library or application which supports them. If you find a library which supports OAuth or OIDC and does not work with FusionAuth, please https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-issues/issues/[open a bug], as we want to know about it. You can also use a link:/docs/v1/tech/client-libraries/[FusionAuth client library].

Using OAuth/OIDC lets your users authenticate and authorize; they'll receive the responses link:/docs/v1/tech/oauth/[documented for each grant]. 

When you use this option, the data your client receives about the user is limited. You can put custom claims in your JWT using link:/docs/v1/tech/lambdas/[lambdas] if what you need is in the user or the registration objects. 

If this level of integration meets your needs, you'll have more portability and less lock-in to FusionAuth.

==== Login API

You can also use the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/login[Login API] to sign your users in directly. In this case, you will likely use one of the link:/docs/v1/tech/client-libraries/[FusionAuth client libraries].

When a user signs in with this API, you receive the entire user object, as well as the JWT.

When you build on top of the Login API, you're responsible for building the user interface for all login use cases. This gives you more control, as well. You can still use other FusionAuth provided user interfaces for use cases such as the forgot password flow.

==== Federated Authentication

Federated authentication, where FusionAuth isn't the system of record for users, is provided by link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/connectors/[Connectors] and link:/docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/[Identity Providers].

Please consult Connector or Identity Provider documentation for more.

=== FusionAuth APIs

Whether you use the Login API or an OAuth grant, you can use additional link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/[FusionAuth APIs] in your application. 

These allow your application to access and modify data not available from OIDC/OAuth. 

Tasks like registering a user to an application, removing them from a group, capturing a consent, or capturing custom data all are possible via custom APIs.

The upside of using these is the ability to leverage the FusionAuth data model and functionality. The downside is that your application is coupled to FusionAuth.

=== Hosted Login Pages

You'll see the phrase "hosted login pages" used throughout the FusionAuth site. These are all the pages that your end user sees when you are hosting your login experience on FusionAuth, as opposed to within your application. These pages are link:/docs/v1/tech/themes/[themeable].

Using the hosted login pages has a number of advantages. All of the complexity of a number of different use cases is handled by FusionAuth. These include, but are not limited to, the following:

* Sign in
* Sign out
* Registration
* Forgot password
* Email verification
* Changing a password
* Two factor authentication
* Passwordless authentication

Additionally, when you use the hosted login pages, FusionAuth provides transparent single sign on (SSO) between applications.

The alternative to using the hosted login pages is building your own login experience. 

You can then use the APIs or an OAuth grant to authenticate your user against FusionAuth. This alternative gives you more control at the cost of more development effort.


=== Other Integration Points

There are a number of other integration points in FusionAuth beyond the APIs.

* link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/connectors/[Connectors] allow you to authenticate against external user data sources, and optionally migrate users into FusionAuth.
* link:/docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/[Identity Providers] allow you to federate authentication decisions to social or standards based providers.
* link:/docs/v1/tech/lambdas/[Lambdas] allow you to run business logic at certain points in the authentication lifecycle.
* link:/docs/v1/tech/plugins/password-encryptors/[Password plugins] allow you to use a custom hashing method. This allows you to import user data from existing systems without requiring any user password changes.
* link:/docs/v1/tech/events-webhooks/[Webhooks] allow you to send data to external systems when certain FusionAuth events occur.
