site/docs/v1/tech/core-concepts/users.adoc, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Users
description: An overview of Users and core FusionAuth concepts
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== Overview

FusionAuth is all about users, and it is helpful to fully understand how FusionAuth understands users to fully leverage all of the features FusionAuth offers.

The User itself is easy enough to understand, it represents your end user, your employee or your client. In order to help you manage users and what resources they are authorized to access we have built a few other concepts.

These are applications, groups and tenants. A tenant is a top level object that contains users, applications and groups. You may or may not have a use for Groups or Tenants, but it will be helpful to know how they work in case you have a future need.

* link:groups[Groups]
* link:applications[Applications]
* link:tenants[Tenants]

== User scope

A User is scoped to a Tenant.  A User existing within a Tenant can be registered to, and use the same credentials to authenticate to multiple applications within that Tenant.

== User search

User search requests may be made through the link:../apis/users#search-for-users[User Search API] or within the FusionAuth admin UI under [breadcrumb]#Users#.

As of version 1.16.0, FusionAuth ships with a database search engine as the default.

==== Configuration

See the [field]#fusionauth-app.search-engine-type# and [field]#fusionauth-app.search-servers# properties, as well as the `FUSIONAUTH_SEARCH_ENGINE_TYPE` and `FUSIONAUTH_SEARCH_SERVERS` environment variables definitions of the link:../reference/configuration[Configuration Reference] for details on configuring the search engine and (optional) Elasticsearch integration.

If you are running FusionAuth in a Docker environment, see the link:../installation-guide/docker[Using FusionAuth on Docker] documentation for an example configuring Elasticsearch as the user search engine.

You may view the configured search engine type in the FusionAuth admin UI by navigating to [breadcrumb]#System -> About#.

image::about-search-engine-type.png[About - Search Engine Type,width=1200,role=shadowed top-cropped]

You may also link:../tutorials/switch-search-engines[between the different search engines].

=== Database search engine

This configuration is lightweight, simplifies installation and system complexity, but comes with the trade offs of limited search capabilities and performance implications.

The database search engine is appropriate for systems that are not dependent on the link:../apis/users#search-for-users[User Search APIs], is not expected to have a large number of active users, and may be running in an embedded environment.

The database search engine enables fuzzy search by term against the following fields of the user:

* `first_name`
* `last_name`
* `full_name`
* `email`
* `username`

image::user-search-database.png[User Search with Database Search Engine,width=1200,role=shadowed bottom-cropped]

=== Elasticsearch search engine

Leveraging Elasticsearch for the user search engine, enables advanced search capabilities on more numerous and granular data and a performance improvement for user search.

The Elasticsearch search engine is appropriate for systems that are dependent on the link:../apis/users#search-for-users[User Search APIs], are expected to have a large number of active users, and requires a more tactical search than is provided by the database search engine.

==== Advanced search UI

FusionAuth provides an advanced user search interface that reveals how you may construct [field]#queryString# and [field]#query# parameters for the link:../apis/users#search-for-users[User Search API] and link:../apis/users#bulk-delete-users[User Bulk Delete API] with desired results. Navigate to [breadcrumb]#Users# from the left navigation and click on the "Advanced" link below the Search input field to begin.  The "Advanced" portion of this UI is available when the search engine type is configured to `elasticsearch`.

We provide selectors for common search fields, as well as a free-form search field for constructing complex search queries.  By selecting the [field]#Show Elasticsearch query# toggle, you will see either the Elasticsearch query string or JSON search query that can be used as [field]#queryString# and [field]#query# parameters for the link:../apis/users#search-for-users[User Search API] and link:../apis/users#bulk-delete-users[User Bulk Delete API].

Additionally, you may enter Elasticsearch query strings or raw JSON queries into the search field for testing purposes.

The following screenshot shows a query string being constructed to search for users that belong to the `Moderators` group and are in the `Default` tenant:
image::user-search-query-string.png[User Search by Query String,width=1200,role=shadowed top-cropped]

When searching for users by application or any fields on an application, it is necessary to construct a JSON query due to the way the Elasticsearch mapping is defined.

The following screenshot shows an Elasticsearch JSON query being constructed to search for users that match the email pattern `*@fusionauth.io`, are registered to the `Pied Piper` application, and are assigned the `admin` role:

image::user-search-json-query.png[User Search by JSON Query,width=1200,role=shadowed top-cropped]

==== Reindex

It is possible for the search index to become out of sync with the database.  In the FusionAuth admin UI, you may navigate to [breadcrumb]#System -> Reindex# to initiate a reindex of all users. This navigation item will only be displayed when the search engine type is configured to `elasticsearch`.

Commit message:

Fixing typo. Updating section on reindexing.
Daniel had clarifying comments about reindexing.

site/docs/v1/tech/core-concepts/users.adoc, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Users
description: An overview of Users and core FusionAuth concepts
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== Overview

FusionAuth is all about users, and it is helpful to fully understand how FusionAuth understands users to fully leverage all of the features FusionAuth offers.

The User itself is easy enough to understand, it represents your end user, your employee or your client. In order to help you manage users and what resources they are authorized to access we have built a few other concepts.

These are applications, groups and tenants. A tenant is a top level object that contains users, applications and groups. You may or may not have a use for Groups or Tenants, but it will be helpful to know how they work in case you have a future need.

* link:groups[Groups]
* link:applications[Applications]
* link:tenants[Tenants]

== User scope

A User is scoped to a Tenant.  A User existing within a Tenant can be registered to, and use the same credentials to authenticate to multiple applications within that Tenant.

== User search

User search requests may be made through the link:../apis/users#search-for-users[User Search API] or within the FusionAuth admin UI under [breadcrumb]#Users#.

As of version 1.16.0, FusionAuth ships with a database search engine as the default.

==== Configuration

See the [field]#fusionauth-app.search-engine-type# and [field]#fusionauth-app.search-servers# properties, as well as the `FUSIONAUTH_SEARCH_ENGINE_TYPE` and `FUSIONAUTH_SEARCH_SERVERS` environment variables definitions of the link:../reference/configuration[Configuration Reference] for details on configuring the search engine and (optional) Elasticsearch integration.

If you are running FusionAuth in a Docker environment, see the link:../installation-guide/docker[Using FusionAuth on Docker] documentation for an example configuring Elasticsearch as the user search engine.

You may view the configured search engine type in the FusionAuth admin UI by navigating to [breadcrumb]#System -> About#.

image::about-search-engine-type.png[About - Search Engine Type,width=1200,role=shadowed top-cropped]

You may also link:../tutorials/switch-search-engines[switch between the different search engines].

=== Database search engine

This configuration is lightweight, simplifies installation and system complexity, but comes with the trade offs of limited search capabilities and performance implications.

The database search engine is appropriate for systems that are not dependent on the link:../apis/users#search-for-users[User Search APIs], is not expected to have a large number of active users, and may be running in an embedded environment.

The database search engine enables fuzzy search by term against the following fields of the user:

* `first_name`
* `last_name`
* `full_name`
* `email`
* `username`

image::user-search-database.png[User Search with Database Search Engine,width=1200,role=shadowed bottom-cropped]

=== Elasticsearch search engine

Leveraging Elasticsearch for the user search engine, enables advanced search capabilities on more numerous and granular data and a performance improvement for user search.

The Elasticsearch search engine is appropriate for systems that are dependent on the link:../apis/users#search-for-users[User Search APIs], are expected to have a large number of active users, and requires a more tactical search than is provided by the database search engine.

==== Advanced search UI

FusionAuth provides an advanced user search interface that reveals how you may construct [field]#queryString# and [field]#query# parameters for the link:../apis/users#search-for-users[User Search API] and link:../apis/users#bulk-delete-users[User Bulk Delete API] with desired results. Navigate to [breadcrumb]#Users# from the left navigation and click on the "Advanced" link below the Search input field to begin.  The "Advanced" portion of this UI is available when the search engine type is configured to `elasticsearch`.

We provide selectors for common search fields, as well as a free-form search field for constructing complex search queries.  By selecting the [field]#Show Elasticsearch query# toggle, you will see either the Elasticsearch query string or JSON search query that can be used as [field]#queryString# and [field]#query# parameters for the link:../apis/users#search-for-users[User Search API] and link:../apis/users#bulk-delete-users[User Bulk Delete API].

Additionally, you may enter Elasticsearch query strings or raw JSON queries into the search field for testing purposes.

The following screenshot shows a query string being constructed to search for users that belong to the `Moderators` group and are in the `Default` tenant:
image::user-search-query-string.png[User Search by Query String,width=1200,role=shadowed top-cropped]

When searching for users by application or any fields on an application, it is necessary to construct a JSON query due to the way the Elasticsearch mapping is defined.

The following screenshot shows an Elasticsearch JSON query being constructed to search for users that match the email pattern `*@fusionauth.io`, are registered to the `Pied Piper` application, and are assigned the `admin` role:

image::user-search-json-query.png[User Search by JSON Query,width=1200,role=shadowed top-cropped]

==== Reindex

It is possible, though rare, for an Elasticsearch index to become out of sync with the database. If you stand up FusionAuth with a database dump and restore, you may need to run this operation. You may also be instructed to do so by FusionAuth support. 

However, in general, even if a temporary outage occurs with Elasticsearch, the index will be sync up automatically. Reindexing is an expensive operation, especially if your system has a large number of users, so it should not be run unless necessary.

If you do need to run this, navigate to [breadcrumb]#System -> Reindex# in the FusionAuth admin UI to initiate a reindex of all users. This navigation item will only be displayed when the search engine is Elasticsearch.
